 [ Music ]
 >> There were lots of campus Ethernet's
 because they were really easy to deploy
 and you could put them in a department
 and then you could run a wire between two departments
 and you had a bigger network and so we've grown up networks sort
 of by agglomeration in lots of different university campuses
 and NSF came up with some money, said, oh, we've got a little bit
 in our budget where we could get some 56 kilobit lines
 and tie those campuses together and they did that,
 made the NSF met phase one.
 But now you're tying together 10 megabit campus infrastructure
 with 56 kilobit wires and it was wildly popular because people
 that couldn't talk could suddenly talk
 and they're sending emails and moving huge files
 and everybody's really excited about this technology.
 But any one of those campuses could oversubscribe the net
 by a factor of a thousand.
 So we had a lot of packets piling up and getting dropped.
 At the time I was a researcher at Lawrence Berkeley Lab,
 which is in the hills up above the Berkeley campus
 and I was also teaching on the Berkeley campus.
 Even back in those days, which was mid '80s, we had a,
 for every class there was a messages group, you know,
 like a little news group that was set up.
 All the assignments would be put online and I was trying
 to get course materials from my office in LBL down to a machine
 in Evans Hall at Berkeley and there was like zero throughput
 in the net, it was one packet every 10 minutes or so
 and it seemed unbelievably bad and I went down and talked
 to Mike Carroll who was heading the BSD group,
 the people that developed Berkeley Unix
 and he's getting reports of these problems from all
 over the country from, in those days,
 the easiest way to start running TCP/IP was to bring
 up Berkeley Unix because there was a ARPA funded very nice
 implementation in it and everybody was seeing poor
 performance so we talked for a long time that day
 and on succeeding days about, well, what's going wrong,
 is there some mistake in the protocol implementation,
 is there some mistake in the protocol,
 this thing was working on smaller scale tests
 and then it suddenly fell apart.
 I think we struggled for three or four months just going
 through the code, writing tools to capture packet traces
 and looking at the packet traces and trying
 to sort out what was breaking and I remember the two
 of us were sitting in Mike's office after we'd been pounding
 our head against the wall for literally months and one
 of us, I can't remember which one, said, "You know,
 the reason I can't figure out why it's breaking is
 I don't understand how it ever worked."
 You know, we're sending these bits out at 10 megabits,
 they're zipping across campus, they're running
 into this 56 kilobit wire, we expect them to go
 through that wire, pop out on the other side, go through.
 How could that function?
 That turned out to be the crucial starting point.
 At that point, we started saying, "Well, what is there
 about this protocol that makes it work?
 How does it deal with all of those bandwidth changes?
 How does it deal with the multiple hops?"
 So this picture, that direction is time,
 this direction is bandwidth.
 So that's a fat pipe and that's a skinny pipe.
 And the scale of the time is, you know,
 this is a 10 megabit pipe and this is a 56 kilobit pipe.
 So here the difference is about 3 to 1,
 it was really closer to 100 to 1.
 And time, seconds times bits per second equals bits.
 So each of these little boxes in there is a packet,
 it's the number of bits in a packet.
 And if you scrunch it down in bandwidth, it's got to spread
 out in time because the number of bits doesn't change.
 And so see the burst of packets,
 the window's worth of packets gets launched, it's going to fly
 through the net until it hits this fast to slow transition.
 And then because the packets have to stretch out in time,
 they all have to sit there and wait as they're fed
 into the slower wire.
 And you, they pop out the other side, they get spread
 out by this bottleneck, by this slower wire.
 Once they're spread out, they stay spread out, right?
 There's nothing to push them back together again.
 They hit a receiver, it turns every data packet into an ACK.
 So you've got a bunch of ACKs
 that are going back towards the sender
 and they remember what's the right spacing
 for that bottleneck.
 So the ACKs get back to the sender
 and every ACK gets turned into a data packet.
 So we can see the data packets flowing back.
 And this is after one round trip time.
 Now the packets are coming out perfectly spaced so they go by,
 a new one goes into the net in exactly the time it takes a
 packet to exit from the bottleneck.
 So these ACKs are sort of acting as a clock
 that tells you, tells the sender when it's safe
 to inject every new packet.
 And they're always going to be spaced
 by whatever is the slowest point in the net.
 >> And the key thing is, is how do you, how quick,
 how can you get the steady state sort
 of most quickly without wasting?
 >> Yeah. And the issue, the failure we saw was,
 this works perfectly after you've exchanged a round trip
 time worth of packets.
 But when you're starting up, when you're here,
 there's no clock.
 And so the hard part on TCP is not getting it running,
 it's getting it started because once you've got it running,
 you've got a clock that tells you exactly what to do.
 So if you turn them on, suddenly you get
 in this repetitive failure mode
 where you saturate the buffering that was available
 at some gateway and then when you retransmit,
 you do the same thing again.
 So you're always losing packets.
 But if you turned it on more gradually,
 then you wouldn't overload the buffering and you'd get enough
 of a clock going so that you control the amount
 of backlog to fit the available buffer
 but you'd still be growing the number of packets in flight
 so that you'd eventually get a, you'd start with a kind
 of sporadic clock but you'd eventually fill in the details
 and get a per packet clock.
 >> How did you get it to the point where it was
 in all the TCP/IP implementations on the planet?
 Because they kind of have to cooperate in a way.
 >> So remember it was a much simpler time when you're talking
 about all the TCP/IP implementations on the planet.
 At that time there were like four.
 So there was the Berkeley Unix one.
 There was the MIT PCTCP.
 There was a BBN one that was used in butterflies and imps
 and there was a Multics one.
 I took the couple of TCP kernel modules that we'd been working
 on, packaged them up in a tar.
 I had this horrible driver hack that would let us snarf packets
 from the kernel, I mean it was really a horrible driver hack.
 It was the way you said what you wanted to snarf was by ADB
 in the kernel you wrote in binary some new values.
 These are the ports that I want to look at
 and the driver would capture those into a circular buffer
 and you'd read kernel memory to pull that buffer out.
 Craig Laris and Chris Torak who were working in my group
 at LBL and were both long-time kernel hackers were just
 embarrassed at this and they put together a really nice clean
 driver thing called BPF, the Berkeley Packet Filter
 that would let you pull packets out of the kernel
 by a very efficient I/O control interface.
 And so we bundled all of that up and on the TCP/IP mailing list
 which in those days was, TCP/IP was very experimental,
 it was very leading edge and pretty much everybody
 who was playing with it was on that mailing list
 to announce that this stuff was available.
 A bunch of people FTPed it, tried it, it blew up,
 sent kernel core dumps and bug reports
 and fixed the bug reports and put new versions out.
 Somebody would immediately come back and say, panicked here,
 do you want the K-Core?
 And they'd go, oh no, embarrassed, put out a new version,
 go out, somebody else would come back and say panicked here
 and fix that and just cycled like that and after about a day
 we got a version that didn't immediately panic
 and then started working on the actual algorithms
 and a little bit of tuning to make sure
 that it actually did good all the time and didn't do any harm.
 Just completely a community effort
 and sort of when the community was saying,
 this mostly does good and never seems to do harm,
 that's pretty much what Mike needed to put it into the kernel
 so he took the community-developed modules
 and rolled them into the BSD release.
