 Packet switching was an idea which was specifically studied by Len Kleinrock at MIT who was actually
 looking at message switching and he did a brilliant dissertation on the use of queuing
 theory to analyze what networks of queues would look like using this message switching
 approach. His analysis, although we'd never used the word packet, is as equally applicable
 to packet switching as it is to message switching. So that's one important milestone in around
 1961. In '62 or thereabouts, Paul Barron is doing work for the RAND Corporation and
 is deeply concerned about the ability to preserve command and control in a post-nuclear environment.
 We were seriously worried that the Russians would actually launch and that we would suffer
 a nuclear attack and that we had to be able to respond and we needed command and control
 for that. So Paul, in 1962, before the existence of integrated circuits or anything else, is
 saying we really should be digitizing and packetizing voice and then using sort of pole-mounted
 radios that are able to transmit in all directions to create a highly connected environment so
 that if holes were knocked out of it by nuclear explosions, if it's a fabric that's in any
 way connected, information could get from one end to the other. So he envisioned the
 notion of a message block and it was dynamically routed. He used hot potato routing. If you
 got something, you got rid of it as fast as you could. He chopped up the speech into little
 20 millisecond pieces. He didn't talk so much about data as I remember it. This was
 supposed to be a highly resilient voice network for command and control. I may have just done
 him a disservice because later he was very much conscious of the importance of data communication
 too. So that's around 1962. It gets documented in an 11-volume series called On Distributed
 Communications and he can't sell it to anybody. The traditional telcos, AT&T in particular,
 found the people at what was then the Defense Communications Agency, laughed him out of
 the room, said this was a silly idea, couldn't possibly work, and so he should just go away.
 So he never got anywhere with that in spite of all the documentation. In '66, Larry Roberts,
 along with one other guy whose name I am now not remembering, does a point-to-point experiment
 to test packet switching. It was between the ANSF-Q7 machine at System Development Corporation
 in Santa Monica and the TX-2 machine at MIT at Lincoln Laboratory, which is where Larry
 was. They demonstrated on a 2400-bit line, bit-per-second line, that you could move packets
 back and forth. Then in the '64 or '65 timeframe, a man named Donald W. Davies at the National
 Physical Laboratory in London also gets the bug, tries to get money from the Science Research
 Commission in England, and gets only enough to build one node, the one-node network. So
 he builds this packet net. He invents the term "packet" to describe what these objects
 are and it works. He's got a bunch of terminals and other things hanging off of this one node.
 So in a funny way, he built a local area network, if you like, but it was based on physical
 wires. So those three guys introduced packet switching. Larry and whoever it was that he
 worked with demonstrate that it's possible to get two very distinct kinds of computers
 to talk to each other using the standard way. J.C.R. Licklider is a psychologist, actually,
 at MIT, but he's convinced in the early '60s that computing is important to non-numeric
 processing, that it will allow people to work together and collaborate in ways that they
 never could before. He comes and starts the Information Processing Techniques Office at
 ARPA with this bee in his bonnet. And who does he encounter? He encounters Douglas Engelbart
 at SRI International, and the two bond, basically, because Engelbart was all about non-numeric
 computing and the ability of people to build up the superstructure of communications and
 documents and interact with each other, hyperlinking, the mouse, the portrait mode display, black
 on white presentations. I mean, the guy had a worldwide web in a box at SRI, and Licklider
 understands that. Licklider is sending out notes to his little community of people talking
 about the intergalactic network made of tongue-in-cheek. So he really gets credit for having put this
 meme in place at ARPA. Then Taylor comes along to pick up the responsibility for running
 the IPTO from Licklider and is all hacked off because he's got three terminals in his
 office at the Pentagon connected to three different machines, and he says, "Why can't
 there be one terminal talking to all three? We need a network." And so as he's pursuing
 this idea with Charlie Hertzfeld, who was the head of ARPA at the time, Charlie hands
 him a million bucks over a 20-minute conversation, and now Taylor's got the problem. Who's going
 to actually do this? Because Taylor's not a technologist either. He's another kind of
 psychologist type. So he decides to get Larry Roberts from Lincoln Laboratories, who did
 that packet thing, and Larry doesn't want to come. So he goes and complains about this
 to Charlie Hertzfeld. Charlie calls up the guy that runs Lincoln Laboratories and says,
 "You know, we pay for a significant fraction of your research budget every year. You should
 tell Larry he should show up." In fact, I thought that maybe Larry had been forced to
 do this by Charlie. I think it was probably a little less awful than that. But Larry was
 persuaded to come down. Eventually, of course, inherited the operation of the office from
 Bob Taylor, but in the meantime is the guy responsible for initiating the ARPANET project.
 So they write an RFQ request for quotation. A bunch of responses come back, probably on
 the order of a couple dozen. I don't know personally for sure how many. I know that
 I wrote one of them with my colleague Steve Crocker while we were still at UCLA as graduate
 students, but we were consulting with a company called Jacoby Systems in Santa Monica. Jacoby
 Systems wrote one of the responses. Bolt-Bear-Neck and Newman wrote another response, primarily
 written by Bob Cohn, who'd come to BB&N from MIT. So the responses come back and they get
 evaluated and four of them end up, and the Jacoby Systems one isn't one of them. Or if
 it was, it didn't get selected. BB&N got selected. So Steve Crocker and I kind of hiked back
 to UCLA as graduate students. And the next thing we know, Len Kleinrock, who's at UCLA
 and who'd written this original dissertation work on packet switching, has come to UCLA
 to teach and explore a queuing theory, is a close compatriot of Larry Roberts, because
 they were both at Lincoln MIOBS together. So he gets the network measurement center
 piece of the ARPANET project. And Steve Crocker and I and John Postel, all of us from the
 same high school in San Fernando Valley, end up in Len Kleinrock's operation running the
 network measurement center. So I was the principal programmer for that. Steve Crocker took the
 responsibility for managing and leading the network working group, which led to the host
 to host protocols. And John Postel eventually becomes the keeper of the documentation. He's
 the RFC editor, which Steve Crocker started, Request for Comments. He's the guy that becomes
 the numbers czar, which is keeping track of address spaces and allocations, and eventually
 becomes the domain name manager of the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority when the Internet
 happens. That hasn't happened yet. This period of time of the ARPANET program brings us up
 to 1972. This is an important moment in this whole history, because the first demonstration
 of the ARPANET happens in the Washington Hilton Hotel basement in October of '72. A whole
 bunch of people from the networking, interested networking community, packet switching community,
 attend, not only in the U.S., but from France and from England and Italy and Germany and
 elsewhere. That group of about 25 or 30 people convenes, sees the ARPANET in operation, sees
 applications that were being done, including Doug Engelbart's stuff, and then forms this
 international network working group modeled after the working group that Steve Crocker
 managed to build the ARPANET system. And at this point, I become the chairman of that
 group because Steve is busy at ARPA doing artificial intelligence.
 At the end of that year, Bob Kahn leaves Bolt, Berenick, and Newman and goes to ARPA. I leave
 UCLA, where I'd been working with Kleinrock and Crocker and Postel, and they go to Stanford.
 So Bob is at ARPA. I'm at Stanford. And in the spring of '73, Bob comes out from ARPA
 and he says, "I have a problem." He says, "What's your problem?" He says, "Well, we
 got this ARPANET." He says, "Yep. But we also are working on other networking capability
 to make command and control work for the military. If you're going to be serious about putting
 computers in command and control, they have to be mobile. They have to be in armored personnel
 vehicles and tanks and all these other things. They have to be seaborne so we can have ship-to-ship
 and ship-to-shore communications, which means satellite. So we need mobile radio. We need
 satellite in addition to the fixed-wire systems that are represented by the ARPANET. We have
 fixed installations that are not moving around." So we have all these different technologies.
 And Bob's brilliant idea is not to build one network with all those technologies embedded
 in it. Instead, he breaks them apart and says, "Let's build a packet satellite network,
 which optimizes the use of satellite, takes into account that it's got a half a second
 round trip time. Let's build a packet radio network, which optimizes a system whose connectivity
 is changing with time as things move around and as you get variable delay and also variable
 interference." So these were three different packet networks. Then the problem is how do
 you hook them together? You wouldn't have this problem if you put all the technologies
 into one net. But if you put them all into one net, it makes it really hard to do control
 over all these highly variable parameters. So instead, he says, "Break them into different
 networks and connect those together." So we design and build a gateway, which today we
 call a router. And that concept also introduced a whole bunch of other things like how do
 you refer to another network? Each network thinks it's the only network in the universe.
 This is true of the proprietary networks like SNA and DECnet and so on. You didn't have
 a vocabulary that said take this packet and move it to another computer on another network
 somewhere else that you might not even be connected to. So we have to invent an internet
 address space in order to solve that problem. We have to find a way to allow packet losses
 in this path to be recovered, which is where TCP now becomes a manager of reliability on
 an end-to-end basis instead of relying on each net to be reliable. The ARPAnet was built
 on the assumption you could build a reliable underlying net. The internet was based on
 the assumption that no network was necessarily reliable and you had to do end-to-end retransmissions
 to recover. So during this 1973 period, Bob and I get the first paper written and published
 in IEEE Transactions on Communications, May of 1974. And I think mostly nobody paid too
 much attention to it. Meanwhile, ARPA is funding us to go make this actually work. At Stanford,
 I am working with my graduate students, some who are at Xerox PARC, some who are at Stanford,
 on the detailed specifications of TCP/IP. We published that in December of 1974 and
 it's the first time the word "internet" shows up in print anywhere. It was the first
 papers we talked about internetworking. So internet shows up in a complete spec in December
 of 1974 and it's also got bugs, but we don't know that yet. Until we start implementing
 it in 1975 with two other organizations. So Bob Kahn says, "You can't have just one
 implementation." Bolt-Bear-Neck and Newman becomes one of the implementers. University
 College London and Peter Kristine's group in England is the second or third implementation.
 So we have three implementations of TCP/IP. In fact, by this time it's only TCP. We haven't
 broken off the IP part. Three implementations are going. We instantly find problems with
 the design and we start evolving. So over a period from 1973 to 1978 we go through four
 iterations of the design and implementation and test until we have a fairly stable thing.
 And then we standardize. So 1978 we fix everything. Now by this time the internet protocol has
 been split off because people like David Reed and Danny Cohen are saying we need to have
 real-time communications that is not necessarily reliable but which has a little latency. So
 voice communications, radar tracks and all that. You don't care where the missile was
 two seconds ago. You want to know where is it now? And in the case of voice if you lose
 a packet you just say that again. I missed something. So we split TCP into TCP and IP
 and we create something called user datagram protocol which is parallel to TCP and it is
 the real-time low latency version of the reliable TCP. All of those little components, IP, TCP
 and UDP now go into the internet architecture starting in 1978 and we start implementing.
 For the next five years we do everything we can to get TCP/IP implemented on every operating
 system we can find. It goes onto the IBM machines, it goes onto the digital machines, HP, it
 goes into Unix. We have a Unix version built by Bolt, Barenik and Newman. We send it out
 to Berkeley, to the Berkeley BSD release guys and Bill Joyce says I don't like that code.
 He writes his own, puts it into BSD 4.2 and that's the version of Unix that carries a
 lot of TCP/IP to the academic world because at the same sort of time frame some micro
 systems comes along and builds these fantastic workstations and they want to use open source
 or at least open protocols and open operating systems. So they adopt Unix and the TCP/IP
 comes with it and they use Ethernet as a way of connecting workstations together so they
 are the engine that's driving the academic community which are all gangbusters for workstations
 and high-speed local networking. So all of this of course places huge demands on the
 ARPANET backbone which is only running at 50 kilobits a second and eventually leads
 to the need for higher speed. NSF jumps into the fray seeing how valuable all this is for
 the academic community and concludes that it should build a network that runs even faster
 and it does so and it's called NSFNET.
