 I was extraordinarily lucky, and happened to be at the Xerox research, Xerox Palo Alto
 Research Center, when a problem evolved that had never before occurred. The problem had
 never occurred, and that was the problem of having a building full of personal computers.
 I was the networking guy, so they turned to me and said, "Network these puppies." Now,
 we had just finished starting the internet, it was then called the ARPANET, which was
 packet switching, and it was pretty clear we wanted this network to connect to the wasn't
 yet called internet thing, so it would be packet switched, we were pretty sure. At the
 same time, we were building arguably, I don't want to get into that argument, the first
 laser printer, which in our case, the first one, whose name was EARS, that's a whole
 other story. It was a page per second, 500 dots per inch, and if you do the math, that's
 about 20 megabits per second. So the existing methods of interconnection had a lot of problems.
 One is they were all home run, so all these wires, one from every desk, would all come
 to this one place in the building and put a big rat's nest, we called it a rat's nest
 by the way. Two is they generally ran at 300 bits per second, or if you really rev them
 up, they go to 14 for kilobits per second, and that wasn't even close to 20 megabits
 per second, so we wanted to be able to keep the printer busy by sending documents from
 all these PCs, which hadn't been built yet, except, well, they hadn't been built even
 at PARC at that point. So we were building the printer and we were building the PCs all
 at the same time. So I started to work on this, and there was an effort before mine
 called SIGNET at PARC, and it was being done by Charles Simony, my friend, but he wasn't
 a networking guy, so they sent me in to pick up SIGNET from Charles, and he was going to
 off and do something else, and by the way, the other thing he did is he wrote a text
 editor, a word processor called BRAVO, which then became Microsoft Office. So Charles is
 a billionaire, and he's been to the space station twice, the International Space Station.
 So maybe I shouldn't have kicked him off SIGNET, maybe I should have done BRAVO, I don't know.
 Anyway, so I immediately decided that SIGNET, by the way, SIGNET stands for Simony's Infinitely
 Glorious Network, was in fact infinitely glorious and had too many moving parts to be a LAN.
 By the way, the word LAN wasn't invented until 1990, and this is still 1973, so the word
 LAN was way in the future, so that's an anachronism. Anyway, the SIGNET had too many moving parts
 for a LAN, and it was in the course of investigating how to organize this LAN that I ran into quite
 by accident by a packet radio network at the University of Hawaii. It was called the Aloha
 Net, and what was beautiful about the Aloha Network is it solved a distributed problem.
 That is, how would we share a radio channel back to the mainframe in Hawaii at the university
 if we were just a bunch of terminals scattered among the Hawaiian islands and they couldn't
 really easily talk to each other to get coordinated? How would they coordinate their sharing of
 this inbound radio channel?
 And Norm Abramson there at the University of Hawaii devised this very simple randomized
 retransmission procedure where a person would type, by the way, what they would type was
 a card image. It was 80 columns wide back from the days of card batch processing. So
 you would type in your card image and hit send, and then your terminal would send it
 in toward the mainframe and then would wait a short time to see if there was an acknowledgement
 returned on the outbound channel. And if there was, everything was hunky dory, but if there
 wasn't, that probably meant the two terminals had decided to send at the same time. So then
 as many terminals as participated in that collision of transmissions would then randomize
 and then retransmit at a random time in the future. Thereby, if they overlapped here,
 they very likely would not overlap again in the future because they would choose different
 random numbers to count down. So that's randomized retransmission multiple access.
 Well, since I was trying to avoid this big rat's nest of wires and only wanted to have
 one wire, just one wire, not 16 or 32 or whatever the alternatives were, just one, I wanted
 a distributed solution to how to share this cable and the ALOHA network produce that using
 randomized retransmissions. So then I actually, you know, there's sort of two stories here.
 One is a hardware story, there's a hardware story and there's a software story. And the
 hardware story is not that interesting, but it's there. So one of the first things I did
 was to buy a kilometer of cable, or maybe a mile, I don't know if I'd gone metric yet.
 So a spool of coax cable about this big with the two ends sticking up. So I got a pulse
 generator and I hooked it up to one end and hooked it around back into the oscilloscope
 and started launching square waves down the cable and watching what came out. I thought
 that would be good preparation for building a network. And what came out the other side
 wasn't a square wave. It was sort of lazy rise times and lazy fall times. But if you
 put a digital gate, you could recover the square wave. That is, you just set, use the
 digital threshold and so out of this gate came a square wave. So you could recover at
 the end of a mile of cable this square wave. So I kind of knew, I kind of had some confidence
 then that we, that various stations connected to this cable could inject their square waves
 and the other guys could recover them. So that hardware wasn't that hard. It was a straightforward.
 So the first hardware was kind of relatively straightforward.
 And the square wave, by the way, was called Manchester. What we'd do is we'd take the
 bit, we'd make a packet of bits. And then we'd send them one at a time down this cable
 and we would encode them. And the encoding was also simple. It was Manchester coding
 meaning for each bit, the first half of the bit would be the complement of the bit and
 the second half of the bit would be the bit. So you would have a transition in the middle
 of each bit cell, which is a very simple modulation scheme. So as you're sending the packet, the
 cable's wiggling and you can recover the signal at the other end and clock those bits into
 a shift register and then clock the shift register into the memory and collect the packet
 that way.
 And that all took just some soldering to make that all happen basically.
 Well I don't want to. It got a little bit complicated when you wanted to put 255 of
 them on a mile of cable. You had to be a little bit careful about the impedance of the taps
 because a square wave coming by a tap might generate reflections that would then interfere.
 But the beauty of Manchester encoding was that while you were sending a packet, there
 were constant transitions. So if you listened, you could tell whether a packet was going
 by and you didn't have to listen for long. You only had to listen for about a bit time
 which turned out to be 340 nanoseconds. So you could wait that long and tell whether
 there was a packet going by. So one of the first differences between the Ethernet and
 the ALOHA network, there are a lot of differences, but one of the first ones was carrier sense.
 In the ALOHA network, you couldn't tell if somebody else was transmitting at the same
 time as you, but on the Ethernet you could. And the advantage of that was you might as
 well, if you're sending and somebody else is sending at the same time, you might as
 well give up because you've destroyed each other's packets or punt. Then that recovers
 that bandwidth that would otherwise be lost to just continuing to transmit a damaged packet.
 And the other thing was this Manchester code meant that the cable was on half the time
 and off half the time. That is, the driver, sort of an open, what we used to call an open
 collector driver, would either yank the cable up to 3 or 4 or 5 volts, I even forget the
 voltage now. But it was under 5, I'm sure of that. I had a rule, I never went above 5 volts.
 You would yank the cable up and then during the other half the bit, when you weren't yanking,
 you let go. So for example, in each bit cell, you got to look to see if anyone else was
 transmitting when you had stopped. And if there was somebody else, then you had a collision.
 So that was the second feature.
 So it was really a digital signal. It was really a digital signal. It wasn't a modulated
 signal in any way, right?
 No. Well, it was...
 Best you could send a digital signal over coaxing.
 On off with the Manchester encoding. So the Manchester encoding is akin to a modulation
 scheme, but it's the simplest one you can think of.
 It's very baseband.
 Yeah, it is very baseband, but it's a sort of modulation scheme that a computer scientist
 would come up with as opposed to one of those fancy...
 Radio people.
 Radio people.
 Right.
 And by the way, I took a lot of gas from all those radio people. Why did you use such a
 simple scheme? You wasted... You would have wasted all that band. You wasted all that
 band with that capable... That cable was capable of carrying hundreds of megabits per second
 and you only carried 2.94. What a waste of the cable.
 Exactly.
 Well, there was plenty of cable to waste. So we've talked about carrier sense and collision
 detection and the scheme would be that each packet would carry two addresses, the address
 of the destination and the address of the source. And each of these would be eight bits.
 And so on the back plane of the little personal computers with wire app, you would wire up
 in a code between zero and 255 and that would be the serial number of the machine. And then
 you'd read that off the back plane and put it in the packet. So each packet had two addresses.
 This is different from the alone incidentally, which had one address because the channel
 was only going through two channels. So two addresses. And we added cyclic redundancy
 checksum on the end of the packet, which we implemented in hardware so that you, in addition...
 So you could tell if the packet had been damaged. So if there was a collision and the terminal,
 the contending stations backed off, there would be a hunk of garbage on the cable zipping
 around. But when it was received, the checksum wouldn't add up and you'd just throw that chunk
 of garbage away. The day that I was launching pulses down this
 spool of cable, I was doing some soldering and I was doing some knife work to get the
 insulation off the copper. And across the room was a young grad student who was doing
 something else and he noticed me not being good at this. And it turns out he was very
 good at it because he had worked in a television studio and he had worked in cable television.
 So he knew all about skinning wires and coaxes. So he came over to help me. And his name was
 David Boggs. And then we started working together and invented
 Ethernet together. And he was slightly more hardware and I was slightly more software.
 But there was then a third guy who was even more hardware than David, who was the PicoFarad
 guy, the guy who had put those last few passive components on the end just to be sure that
 connection to the coaxial cable would be clean for transmissions. Every time you tapped into
 it, you didn't put a big lump of impedance on it.
 The tapping seems like a counterintuitive thing to me. I mean, everyone would think
 that a star is the right thing, but you were going to tap into that, just tap into it.
 One of the problems we decided to solve was the rat's nest problem. We did not want a
 rat's nest. And every time we installed a new PC, we didn't have to home run a cable
 back to the rat's nest. So we wanted to put one cable down the middle of the corridor.
 And then every time you want to put a PC, you just run up and tap into it. And we didn't
 want the network to go down while you were tapping into it because we wanted 24x7 access
 to the network. So there had to be a way to tap into the network without bringing it down.
 So that led to a device we found in the cable TV industry. It was called a Gerald tap. It
 was basically a vampire tap. You'd drill a little hole in the outer casing of the coax
 and then you would screw in this tap that would puncture the insulation and go right
 to the copper and tap in. And you notice in that operation, you're not breaking the copper.
 So the network continues sending. You tap in and you're now part of the network.
 So that came from the cable industry. It did. So a guy named David Liddell, who had done
 cable TV installations when he was in grad school in Toledo, suggested that we use the
 Gerald tap since it was already being made in volume and worked just fine, as far as
 he was concerned. And it allowed us to solve the rat's nest, what we perceive to be an
 important problem, the rat's nest problem. The ALOHA network ran in the kilobit per second
 range like 4800 or kilobits per second. Ethernet then started at 2.94 megabit. And in those
 days, by the way, T1 was 1.544 megabits per second. So in 1973, Ethernet was already twice
 as fast as T1. Of course, T1 is still around, oddly. But then we went from 2.94, we briefly
 went to 20 megabits per second inside of Xerox. And then when we bumped into DEC and Intel
 for the standardization process in 802, we decided on 10. We came down from 20 to 10
 so the chips would work. And then we went from 10 and later I helped found a company
 called Grand Junction Networks that introduced the 100 meg Ethernet. And I remember being
 at my coffee table in Palo Alto, I think it was, I forget the year, no, maybe it was in
 Woodside. But we were trying to think of how we would make a faster Ethernet. And there
 is some math that shows that as you go faster, the efficiency depends on the diameter of
 the network. And as you go faster and faster, the efficiency goes down, the diameter of
 the network in bits. And we were trying to go up a factor of 10 and then, I don't know
 who it was, one of us observed that, "Wait a minute, we've been assuming that Ethernet
 is a kilometer in diameter, but we're all going to hubs now so that we only need a hundred
 meters, not a thousand meters." And that was the factor of 10 right there. So by changing
 the collision interval, you maintain the same theoretical efficiencies by just assuming
 you're going 100 meters instead of a kilometer. So that got us to 100 megabits per second
 and now gigabit, 10 gigabit, which I guess is the mainstream now, and then 100 gigabit
 is now beginning to run, 100 gigabits per second. You can't be a computer scientist
 and build that kind of digital now. You have to actually be a hardware engineer to run
 that.
 I think at that point you're pretty much a radio person.
 But then after 100 gigabits comes terabit. So I've already begun giving talks on terabit
 Ethernet.
