 We're having massive scaling problems today, trying to join together the very information-centric
 web model with the very host-centric TCP/IP model.
 If you look at how the net has evolved, it started as a telephone system for computers.
 The model was computers wanted to exchange data, people wanted their computers to be
 able to exchange data.
 The model we had for communication for 140 years had been the phone system.
 So we said, "Okay, they want to have a conversation, because communication is conversation over
 long distances.
 And so let's make protocols and infrastructure that allows computers to have a conversation."
 First cut of that, things like the ARPANET networks that would handle different bandwidths.
 They didn't require all of the global clock distribution of a telephony network, instead
 they substituted buffering.
 One crucial thing coming out of Paul Barron was, unlike the phone system where the communication
 was all about building a wire, you know, hop by hop, link by link between the two endpoints,
 he was basically instructing the switching system how to make one long wire, Paul said,
 "Don't do it that way, just identify the endpoints and let the network take care of getting the
 data there."
 So this is great, it's just completely changed the world.
 But the bulk of that change didn't happen in the 70s and 80s and early 90s when the
 net was first growing out, it happened in the late 90s and the 2000s when the web took
 off.
 And it had nothing whatsoever to do with computers having a conversation model, it had to do
 with people creating and consuming content.
 And the web sort of showed us for the first time what happens if we leave behind this
 18th century model of telephony and instead we start to look at not the wires but the
 information in the wires.
 And the web gave us a structure where you could name information, not the process of
 getting it, but the information itself, say, "I want this webpage, I want this YouTube
 video, I want this Amazon personal page," and you would get back a set of content, some
 thing that represented that name that you gave.
 But if we recast the way we think about the low-level infrastructure, don't say the web
 is an overlay on top of TCP/IP, which is the way it's implemented today, but say if 99%
 plus of what we do is web-like stuff, is there a model that lets us do the same stuff at
 the packet level?
 So we make it the basis of our communication rather than saying it has to be an overlay.
 So you can create videos, you can put them on your own website, and you have to pray
 that they never get popular because if they get popular, your ISP is almost immediately
 going to shut you down because your link will be completely saturated, what we used to call
 the slash dot effect.
 That's intrinsic to the conversational model.
 We don't do broadcast TV by making phone calls to a TV station.
 If you want to put media distribution over TCP/IP, you have to figure out some way to
 lie to the network so that YouTube.com, which TCP thinks is a location, is identified by
 an IP address, you've got to make sure that it's not a location, that it's spread across
 the entire planet.
 So while we spent most of the '90s growing the internet and having the protocols work
 for us, now if you look at YouTube, Google, Amazon, Facebook, Twitter, all of these very
 heavily used services that manifest themselves to the net as an IP address, looks like a
 single location, but if they're a single location with hundreds of millions of users, the traffic
 in a conversational model always scales like the popularity, it scales like the number
 of consumers.
 If you're doing a Twitter update or a video that wants to be seen by millions, you can't
 deploy it in a conversational model, and we spend all our time fooling the net.
 Information that's sort of qualitatively the same, it's all naming or identity information,
 but it's spread randomly across the whole damn packet.
 So we've got source and destination addresses that conventionally we think of as layer three,
 and so it's up at front to be used by the network layer, and then we've got ports that
 are layer four, and so they're a little bit deeper in because they're supposed to be used
 by the end node for its demoxing to get you to a particular application.
 And inside of that, we've got sequence numbers, which are being used when you get to the application
 for it to reassemble the larger unit, and inside of that, we've got URLs, which are
 used by a higher level part of the application, the non-transport part of the application.
 You've just got all of this information, it's all fundamentally name information.
 What do these bits mean?
 If you pull together the source addresses, the ports, the sequence numbers, the URLs,
 they all give you context for the information, they're all the name of the information.
 Rather than having Amazon's load balancer, which is trying to figure out, all right,
 which of my 50,000 unused machines is currently handling this customer's request, so I have
 to look at the addresses, I have to look at the ports, I have to look at the sequence
 numbers, I have to look at the cookies in order to dispatch the sucker to where it's
 going.
 What if I say packets have a name on the front, and all of that information just gets collected
 to the name, and at any point in the network, you look at as much of that name as you need
 to look at to do your job.
 If just the front part will work, because all you're doing is gross level story, just
 look at the front.
 If you need to look at more of it, we don't have layers.
 What we have is a set of structured information.
 We know that we're going to be looking at different parts of it for different reasons,
 so we put topologically sensitive information like amazon.com, stick that at the front,
 because you can use that to make scalable routing tables.
 When it gets there, we don't want to say there's a transport protocol and there's various layers,
 just say, "Yeah, there's a job that I'm doing when I get to amazon.com, and it requires
 me to look at this much."
 If you don't care where you're getting the data, if all that matters to you is what the
 data is, not where it comes from, then all of this memory that has to be in the network
 as buffering in order to manage the multiplexing of the network, suddenly that becomes a viable
 source of data.
 The way it happens today is you're watching a YouTube video, that means the bits leave
 some server at YouTube, they go into the downstream gateway's memory, they get pulled out of that
 memory, put into a wire, go into the next top gateway's memory, and they're bouncing
 memory to memory through all these interconnecting wires until they get to you.
 If the two of us are watching the same video, then the immediate upstream gateway gets one
 copy of the video going to me, and another separate copy of exactly the same video going
 to you.
 They both went through that gateway's memory.
 Is it this conversational abstraction that we're putting on because the gateway doesn't
 know that we're consuming the same content?
 What it sees is two different conversations.
 It can't look in its memory and say, "Oh, I've got that, I can give it to you."
 You have to fetch a new copy and you have to fetch it all the way from YouTube.
 That's what's giving us the abysmal scaling is having the load scale like the popularity
 is strictly a function of the data can only originate at one place.
 If you just care about the data, just start going towards that place and as soon as you
 run into the data, okay, now you've got a copy, you're done with your distribution.
