 - Welcome to Internet Technology and Security on Udemy.
 My name is Charles Severance.
 I'm a professor
 at the University of Michigan School of Information,
 and I've been teaching online programming
 and technology courses to millions of students since 1997.
 So why take a course on Internet Technology and Security?
 Well, being a great programmer is not just about programming.
 You must also understand context,
 especially in the age of AI.
 The best programmers, the master programmers,
 understand the environment in which software operates.
 They know more than language syntax.
 They know more than algorithms.
 They know more than libraries.
 They understand systems, networks, history, architecture,
 and the human problems that software is trying to solve.
 I've created a series of courses
 that provide a straightforward path
 to becoming one of those master programmers.
 But for me, that path always starts with history and context
 and always with an eye toward the human side of technology.
 My courses on Internet History, Technology, and Security
 provide a gentle introduction to the technical details
 of the internet and networked applications.
 And don't worry, there is no math and there is no programming.
 Instead, we focus on understanding ideas.
 We learn about packets, sockets, protocols,
 and layered network architectures,
 and we do it in a fun way.
 I present all this material alongside some of my interviews
 with many of the people who actually helped build
 the early internet.
 You get a sense of the 40-year research effort
 that led to the internet that we all use today.
 Frankly, as I designed it, I wanted this course
 to feel more like a learning Netflix series.
 Put it on your television, grab some snacks,
 sit back, and binge watch lectures and interviews
 about how the internet works.
 There are no stressful deadlines, no essays, no pressure.
 Just relax, enjoy the material, and learn.
 My goal is to start you on the path
 toward becoming a master programmer
 through enjoyable courses where you'll learn a great deal
 without making your head hurt.
 And at the end of the course, I'll talk to you again
 about the road ahead and the next steps
 you might take on your journey.
 But for now, just sit back, relax, and enjoy the course.
 Cheers, see you soon.
 (upbeat jazz music)
