 The domain name system, it really doesn't have a great place to fit in this architecture.
 It is the thing that converts user-friendly names like www.umich.edu to like a network-friendly
 address. These network numbers and IP addresses are important because they are the, they encode
 the geography of the connections of the internet. But we humans really don't care about the geography
 of the interconnections of the internet. www.umich.edu or www.facebook.com is what we want to remember.
 So I like to kind of think of the domain name system as kind of like sort of somewhere either
 between the internet and the transport or between the internet and the link or somewhere like in
 this area, you know, somewhere here. And it's certainly not in the application layer. It's
 not the link layer. It uses the link layer. But basically it's kind of a little add-on to the side.
 So the domain name system is for user-friendly names. Okay. So let's talk a little bit about just
 how it works because domain names are what we use all the time and IP addresses are what computers
 use all the time. And the routers use. Routers really have no knowledge of the domain names.
 They simply move data based on the IP addresses. Numeric addresses are tough for people to remember.
 I remember in the old days we would have little post-it notes on our computers and that's how I
 would keep track. Oh, there's a new Minnesota just put up a server. Let's put that number on
 my little post-it note. So the fact that they were numbers didn't bother us at all because there was
 only 40 of them, but quickly there was more than 40. And each campus even in the early days only
 would have one network number, but now campuses have 20 or even 40 network numbers, multiple groups
 of addresses. They're groups of addresses, but there are many of them. They get reorganized. You
 move a server from one place on campus to another like the Michigan web server. It was on our North
 campus. It would have one address. It was on our main campus. It would have another address. And so
 you don't want people to know what these IP addresses are. So they invented this notion of
 a domain name system, the name, the, the, the visible name that we could switch the mapping
 from the name to the IP address transparently. And so the domain name system is like the internet's
 address book and it's a big distributed database. That's fast. It uses caching so that it's locally
 fast. Even if the network is partially down, IP addresses reflect the technical geography
 and they read right to left, at least to the point where the network number is kind of the physical
 attachment point for the campus or business. And then this part is the attachment point within
 that campus or business. And so the most specific, the least specific to most specific goes from left
 to right. Domain names on the other hand are like organizational structure. The least specific is on
 the far right. And then it goes more specific as we go left. So edu means educational institutions,
 umich.edu means the particular educational institution, university of Michigan,
 si.umich.edu means the school of information at the university of Michigan. Not all schools
 are just a particular one. And then dub dub dub is a particular server at that school.
 And it reads like a postal address. So if you think of where I teach 2455 North Quad,
 it's kind of on earth and it's on the country USA and it's in a zip code. It's in the state of
 Michigan. It's in Ann Arbor. And then this is the building. And then this is the room number in the
 building. So we go from very general to very specific. So domain names read in a sense,
 right to left, phone numbers and IP addresses read left to right.
 The other thing that's interesting about domain names is that they're owned. They're owned from
 right to left. And so there are sort of, there's a hierarchy and basically an organization owns
 edu. The organization's name is edu cause. It has conferences and other things, but one of the things
 that it does is it owns in the public trust, the name edu. So university of Michigan could go to
 edu and say, Hey, could I have umich.edu? And they would say, let me think about that. And then
 maybe they would give it. And they did because university of Michigan, nobody else had it. And
 it seemed like a good name and university of Michigan was like a credited institution of
 higher education. So they would give it to them. If I want to say like, Hey, I'm Dr. Chuck and I
 want to create Dr. Chuck university. And I could have drchuck.edu. And they would go like, no,
 you can't. You're not a university. You're not, you're not an educational institution.
 So they might say yes. They might say no. Things like.com and.org, they're kind of a catch is catch
 can. And so the first one who gets there, uh, tends to win. There's, there's some situations where if,
 if I got coca-cola.com and had no particular use for it and coca-cola owned the trademark coca-cola,
 they could take it away from me unless I had a legitimate purpose for it. Um, it's harder for me
 to imagine a legitimate purpose for coca-cola, but target.com might be a club for target shooting.
 And it would be difficult for target to say, sorry, I got to take your, your, your target
 shooting club away because that's even though it's not as big as targets company, it, uh,
 it's a legitimate use. So at each level, once the university of Michigan is awarded the university
 of Michigan, it creates a mechanism to award sub domains within that. And so there is actually a
 committee at the university of Michigan. And if we want, like our learning management system is
 called ctools.umich.edu. If we want that, we have to go to the committee and convince them to give
 it to us a top level domain within the university of Michigan. We got one, the school of information
 where I'm a faculty member is si.umich.edu. And they gave us that one. I could go to that
 committee and I could say, Hey, I want to be drchuck.umich.edu. And they would say, no, you
 can't. So then the school of information where I teach has si.umich.edu and they have a committee
 and they can give out sub domains within that. So you get the picture, right? So I could go there
 and say, Hey, can I have drchuck.umich.edu, si.umich.edu, drchuck.si.umich.edu. And they
 would say, no, but you can have csev.people.si.umich.edu. So once you own one of these things,
 you can give out sub domains. I do own drchuck.com, drchuck.com. And if there was high desire for
 something underneath drchuck.com, then I could have my own little business selling domains under
 drchuck.com. Nobody seems to want any of those things, but you know, some people have mail.com
 and other things. And so each one of these is a new potential for expansion. And so that's kind of
 how the domain name works, right? It is this mapping between these names. There is sort of this
 right to left ownership of these names and you have to ask people to get those names.
 And so that's a real quick overview of the domain name system.
