 - Oh, oh hi, sorry, I was in the forums. I guess it's time for this week's video. So
 this week we're moving from history to technology, and in a sense we're going to tell the same
 story again. You know, we'll sort of start at the beginning, but we're going to start
 from the bottom and work upwards. So in a sense we're kind of talking about the same
 things, but just from a more technical perspective. Don't worry, you'll be fine. We're not going
 to over - there's no math, I promise. There's no programming. Don't worry about that. So
 of course I appreciate IEEE Computer Magazine, who I write for, to let me use the articles
 that are associated with some of the videos, as well as the folks from Open Michigan who
 have helped me. So hang on a sec. No, hang on. I've got a phone call. I'll be right
 back. Okay, well that's been sent. Sorry for that interruption. Again, I thank everybody
 for the use of the copyright materials. Part of my hidden agenda in this class is that
 you will be able to look at this XKCD comic and you'll understand the humor. So I'm going
 to stop for a moment and let you look at it and see if you get the humor. Okay, so maybe
 you did, maybe you didn't, but hopefully by the time we're done, you'll have a better
 chance of getting the humor. So if you recall, most academics throughout the 60s, 70s, and
 80s, the best they had access to was this store and forward networking where you would
 send a message and it would go into a computer and it might sit for some time. Then it would
 find its way across a network and it would sit for a little while longer and hop. And
 there's these multiple hops. We call these hops. And each of these would be a couple
 of hundred miles perhaps. And to go from say Michigan to Stanford, there might be 15 or
 20 hops. Hops are as much defined by geography where we're all trying to optimize the cost
 of these long distance connections. So the thing that really characterized store and
 forward networking was that there wasn't a lot of sharing. One message was being sent
 across one of these links at a time, and all the other messages just kind of waited in
 line. Now the innovation that happened in the research networks in the 60s through the
 80s, ultimately unbodied in the ARPANET, was the fact that they were going to be packet
 networks. First, how do we share one link so that a long message doesn't clog it up?
 And how do we deal with outages more dynamically with the idea that eventually you could say,
 send a packet across the country and back into a computer and back out in maybe a half
 of a second. And that was seen as something to do rather than somewhere between 10 minutes
 and a day or two. So how to do this efficiently? It was a research project. And it was a research
 project that lasted almost 20 years. And 20 or more years. And one of the neatest things
 about this is they were able to throw it away and rewrite it a bunch of times so that they
 could put something in production, see its flaws, see what was good about it, then they
 had the money from DARPA to throw it away and rewrite it. Now by the late 1970s, it
 had, you know, hundred-ish computers on it. Here's a picture. And these are not the schools.
 These are the computers. These are, you know, listing all of the computers that are there.
 And so the engine, the innovation that they spent 20 years perfecting was the notion of
 packet swishing. So how can we move data simultaneously across the connection? And the essential brilliant
 idea is break the message into packets. And again, to sort of review, here I have a message
 and I have postcards that only can handle 10 characters. And I'm going to send this
 "Hello, there. Have a nice day" message to Daphne in California. And so I have three
 10-character postcards. I basically put a from address and a to address on each postcard
 and a sequence number on each postcard. One, two, and three. And I put 10 characters on
 each. And then I stick them in my mailbox. I just put them in. Put the sign up. And then
 I wait. Now, let's just say, you know, that the post office person comes and picks this
 first one up. And it goes to Chicago from Michigan. And then it goes to Omaha. It goes
 to Denver. And then the second one kind of falls on the floor and it ends up going to
 Charlotte, North Carolina. And then they're like, "Why is this here?" And then they send
 it to Atlanta to get checked. And then they make sure. And this one goes. And number three
 ends up going to St. Louis. And then Tulsa. And then Colorado. And this one gets routed
 back to Charlotte because they weren't sure why they sent it to them in the first place.
 And then they send it to Memphis, Tennessee. And then this one makes it to California.
 And then this other one sort of goes to Phoenix. And this one finally gets to Dallas, Texas.
 And this other one goes finally. And then this third one goes to Tucson, Arizona. And
 then Las Vegas, Nevada. And finally it makes it, right? So these poor little postcards
 that I put in, they have each a different journey, right? It's a little adventure for
 each of the postcards that they go through. And so we don't, I don't see how this works
 on my end. I put in three postcards. I numbered them one, two, three. But on the far end in
 California, Daphne opens her mailbox and has scribbling all over her mailbox. Oh, the shame.
 No, actually we'll get rid of the scribbling. So Daphne opens up her mailbox and she doesn't
 know how these packets got there, I mean postcards, how they got there. Out comes the first one.
 She goes, oh, it looks like I got a message from Chuck, but I've only got part of it.
 Then out comes the second one shortly thereafter. And then after a long period of time, finally
 the third one comes out, but it's actually the second one. And now she understands that
 she's got the entire message and she reassembles it and away we go. And so this is the basic
 notion of how all those postcards can share the infrastructure. They can all be in flight
 at the same time. They can take different paths. You don't have to connect them all
 together like trains, basically. And this led to a shared network infrastructure. And
 so the computers that were in a store and forward network went from sort of big powerful
 computers with disk drives to really tiny computers with a single purpose of forwarding
 packets rather than long-term storage of message. And so the store and forward had long-term
 storage of messages in the routers. I mean, not in the routers. In the store and forward,
 the old one, long-term storage was somewhere in the network. But this was only short-term,
 right? Short-term storage, short-term storage. And so when a packet comes out, it simply
 has to find its way through a series of hops. It still hops and it still connections. But
 basically it has to find its way across the Internet. And then we would take whole campuses
 like University of Michigan, say, or Stanford, for example. And then we'd have sort of various
 kinds of local networks on those campuses and computers on the campuses and servers
 and various things. And they would route all their packets, all their data out to the Internet.
 And then the packets would find their way across the Internet. And then we might have
 a home connection as well that might connect. And so the shared network infrastructure focuses
 only on packets, not reliability or anything else.
 So this notion of hops didn't go away. As a matter of fact, I don't know how many hops
 it took to get from Ann Arbor to Palo Alto using Bitnet. I'm going to guess it might
 have been 16 or 20. And these days it takes 16 or 20 hops. The difference is, is in the
 Internet, the 16 or 20 hops happens in a hundredth of a second or a tenth of a second. So the
 notion of hops and the notion of intermediate computers is still present in the Internet
 and the TCP/IP networks that we use today. And so your message sort of leaves you the
 host that you're in, hops to the first router, and then hops to however many routers, dot
 dot dot. This is more of a dot dot dot thing. And then finally hops its way out to the far
 host. And so this is sort of either your computer, maybe Stanford's web server, and then there's
 this series of routers in the middle that it hops through.
 And so the problem of what data goes between here and here is you've got to solve a lot
 of problems, all kinds of problems. And so in order to simplify the solution or break
 the solution into simpler, more manageable parts, they came up with a layered network
 model. Now, this is a cartoon, and computer people love drawing cartoons and saying this
 is our architecture, this is our framework, this is our approach. Sometimes they're helpful,
 sometimes they're not helpful. Sometimes the cartoon is just kind of a cartoon. But what's
 usually being communicated in these kinds of pictures is they're taking a big problem
 and breaking it down into some subset, some set of smaller problems. So the whole problem
 that they've got to solve of getting data reliability reliably across the whole country
 is that big. And if we can break it into four pieces and work separately, and come up with
 ways to let these pieces interact, work separately with each one, then maybe we'll have a better
 solution, okay? So take a problem that's so large and so complex that we might not be
 able to solve it, and break it into four smaller problems, gives us a better chance of solving
 the four problems. Now, there's a certain art to picking how you break the problem up.
 And there's more than one network model. The one that we use in the Internet is the TCP/IP
 or Internet Protocol Suite model. And we'll meet some of the people who designed that.
 There was also a model called the seven-layer OSI model, Open System Interconnection model.
 So there's a model out there that has one, two, three, four, five, six, seven layers.
 And they all have names, and they all have purposes, and they all have definitions. This
 was not quite as popular. This was not very popular. And I doubt that it's many places,
 because the TCP/IP model is the one that kind of won. And so that's the one that we're going
 to study. But that doesn't mean that that has to be the only one, but it is the one
 that has become popular on the Internet. So once you break the problem down from a big
 problem into four small problems, you have to develop documents about how these layers
 work together, how various computers work together, how routers work, all these things.
 And so early in the process of the development of the ARPANET, they created an open process
 to build these specifications, where they would invite engineers from all kinds of companies
 and universities and who knows what, any expertise, to show up at a meeting several times a year.
 I mentioned the IETF meeting when I was talking about the history of the Internet and the
 Tim Berners-Lee boff that only 15 people showed up to. That's this meeting. It's the Internet
 Engineering Task Force, which is just a bunch of engineers that get in a room, get in many
 rooms and solve a bunch of problems. And so the standards that come out of this, and you
 can go read them, they're all open documents. They're very throwback documents. They've
 got this text thing, and it's got all this beautiful uppercase that reminds me of back
 when printers didn't have a lowercase. And these are documents that describe how most
 of the components of the Internet work together. So the layered architecture that I just described,
 where you have a computer, and then it sends data out the back of it, and then hop, hop,
 hop, hop through routers, and then the data arrives at the destination computer, and then
 the destination sends it back. It's hop, hop, hop, hop, hop coming back, and it comes to
 you. We're going to expand on this a little bit. So each of these hosts on the two ends
 is going to expand to this much right here. So that's one host. That's another host. And
 each of these routers is going to expand into this. So this bottom picture is just an expanded
 version of this upper picture so that we can see how the Internet layers work together.
 So when you send a message in on your computer, this is all software. Application, transport,
 Internet, link. So this is all software. And then it comes out the little plug on the back
 of your computer. So maybe your computer has a little plug like this on the back of it.
 That's an Ethernet plug, and here's an Ethernet wire, and I'm plugging my local area network
 in, right? And so this right here is that right there. That's kind of the plug. It might
 be Wi-Fi, which means it's kind of like air, but if you have a wire like this, then it's
 a little more tangible. And there's something on the other end of that wire. This is a very
 short wire, but there would be a router on the other end of that wire. The router takes
 the data off the wire and then forwards it, just like a post office, intermediate post
 office would do, onto the next link, onto the next link. And this would be multiple
 hops in here. They're only showing two hops. And then finally, it's on the last link going
 to that computer at Stanford, and then it goes up through these four layers of software
 and then goes and does whatever it's going to do. Now, when they send you the response
 back, it kind of goes the other way. And back up and back to you. So if this was you in
 a web browser, you know, and then here's me, and here's a slide I've got, right? This web
 browser and you move in your cursor in the web browser, sending stuff back and forth
 to the Coursera servers, kind of here, and that's what's happening, right? So as we look
 at this picture over here, this left column is the host you're coming from. The right
 column is the host you're going to, and the routers are these things in the middle. Okay?
 So let's start looking at all four layers. We are going to start at the bottom, at the
 link layer, and then we're going to move up. So if you recall, when I talked about the
 basic reason why we even have a layered architecture at all, is to simplify the problem. To simplify
 the problem. So the idea of the link layer is the link layer is a, it only worries about
 getting the data across one hop, right? Only worries about getting the data from across
 one piece of wire. What like voltage goes on these little wires and how we send this
 stuff and if more than one computer is using the same wire, how do we share? It's a complex
 enough problem, but we don't worry about the whole world. We worry about this one link
 layer. And so the link layer is sort of like the connection out of one computer and into
 another computer. And this might be fiber optic, might be, you know, 40 miles, or it
 might be 40 feet, for all we know. But it's one link, okay? And then a router pulls it
 off that link and then forwards it onto another link. If you go to the post office, you could
 think of the person who picks your mail up from your house with the thing on their shoulder,
 that's one link. Then they put it in a truck, which takes it to a place that puts it in
 a semi-truck, and then they puts it to another place that puts it on a train, and the semi-truck
 and the train and the postman or postwoman are these little link layers. Each person
 or semi-truck is not taking it all the way, they're just getting a little farther. So
 that's the link layer. So the link layer doesn't worry about the rest of this stuff. It really,
 the stuff that is defined on this wire really doesn't even care if there's a worldwide web
 or anything. Its job is to get data across one foot. That's what its job is. Is it up?
 Is it down? How do we share? It doesn't care. It's got a very narrow view. So what it means
 is we can zoom in on this problem. We can zoom in and focus and ignore everything else.
 So the link layer basically asks questions like, "I've got some data inside the computer
 and I want to send it out. How do I encapsulate it? What if this is shared? How do I deal
 with that?" Common link technologies that we see are like Ethernet or Wi-Fi or cable
 modem, DSL, satellite or optical. These are all links, layers of one form or another.
 So if you're going back to this Ethernet link layer, which is one of our favorites because
 it's kind of ubiquitous, other than wireless, it's probably Ethernet is the most ubiquitous
 link layer. So when the manufacturer builds an Ethernet or a wireless adapter, they actually
 build into it, which is probably right here. I don't know. It could be right here. They
 build into it a serial number. So they mark this as having a serial number. And you can
 actually, whether you're on Windows or Mac, you can work your way down to find the serial
 number for your actual manufactured piece of equipment. So there's one on the Mac. That's
 an example one on the Mac and that's an example one on the PC. They tend to be six two-digit
 numbers concatenated together often with colons or in this case in Windows it shows dashes.
 And so this is a Raspberry Pi and all the Raspberry Pis are going to actually have similar
 prefixes and then serial numbers within that prefix. And so the Raspberry Pis get manufactured.
 They come out of the manufacturing line with this sequence number just kind of going chug,
 chug, chug, up, up, up, up, up. And then they get shipped to all corners of the world. And
 so these numbers are not the numbers for this to get across the world. All these serial
 numbers at the link layer are good for is to get across one connection in case that
 connection is shared. And if you were to plug this into a hub and you're plugging other
 computers into that same hub, well then you're sharing that connection and this computer
 might see the traffic for that other computer. And so we use the physical addresses so that
 this computer knows which of the packets belong to it on the piece of wire. So wired ethernet
 or Wi-Fi certainly if you're sitting in a room with a bunch of Wi-Fi computers you're
 sharing the air. So you have to come up with rules how to share this, how to share nicely
 and how to behave. So the way it works is you could and this ethernet could easily have
 a bunch of other computers hooked to it right because it's really shared and so they're
 all sitting here, they're all talking simultaneously, you know, but we have a pair of computers
 that want to talk. So it's not just one, it's got a bunch of folks sitting here. Just draw
 a bunch of them, bunches of folks. They're all talking or all potentially talking and
 we got to figure out how in the shared medium. Like this is, think of this as a hub and they're
 all connected into this hub including the two we want to talk. They're all connected
 in the hub including the two that we want to talk. And how can these two make sure that
 the data goes, is the data that's sent with the intention of going to this computer, this
 router, how can it make sure that it gets there? Well, if it knows the address of the
 sending and receiving unit it just encodes that in the packet. And that way it sort of
 goes by all these folks, let me change colors here, the packet we send goes by all these
 folks and even if they all heard every one of the packets they all know that it doesn't
 belong to them because they all have a different number and this is the only one that responds
 to it. So that allows them to share the wireless or the wire and share the wireless or the
 wire and have it all work out for them. So that's the idea of the link layer. Now again,
 remember this might only be 50 feet or 50 yards or 50 meters, you make it meters. It's
 only 50 meters but you still have to share the network in that 50 meters. And then the
 router takes it off of that and forwards it on a different link and that's how we get
 across the country but that's the next layer up and let's not worry about that for now.
 So the idea is think about one link whether it's fiber optic or wireless or Wi-Fi. And
 so what are the kind of problems that you have to solve on this link layer? Well, so
 one of the things that's cool about many link layers is like wireless and Ethernet is they
 can be shared and it makes it really easy to just plug new computers in. So you just
 sort of like here's a hub and you just plug another computer in and it's on the network.
 But they have to come up with a way to avoid the chaos when they're sharing. And so the
 way Ethernet does this is with a technique called carrier sense media access with collision
 detection. And as you'll see a lot of the things that we do on the Internet have a lot
 to do with courtesy. Meaning that we're just nice and if everybody's nice it all works
 out kind of like driving in a car. Just everyone can't run through the stop sign at the same
 time. So we've got to stop, got a green light, your turn, my turn, whatever. This probably
 wouldn't work so well with cars because sometimes you do have a collision of packets you just
 have to wait. Packet collisions don't crush your car they just slow your data down. So
 here we go. This is basically carrier sense media access with collision detection. The
 first thing you do if you want to send some data, say we got some data inside a little
 computer and we're going to send it out knowing that there might be other data going by. The
 first thing we do is we listen. We listen to what's on there. If it's not silent we
 just wait until it goes silent and then we start sending. So if someone's already using
 it why crash into their data and crush their data? Because it's shared, there's only one.
 You can't both be sending at the same time. So first you listen. Once it's silent you
 begin transmitting data and then what you do is you also listen to your own data. And
 if your own data is coming back then it's sounding pretty good. And then if there is
 a collision because there's a chance that two computers will want to send at the same
 time and they'll collide then what they have to do is back off. And they have a sophisticated
 random number calculation so that they back off not always the same amount. Each computer
 backs off a different amount and they make it so that it's fair. So one computer's not
 always backing the most off so it's very fair. So it's when you detect a collision you retransmit
 after a random back off. First you avoid collisions but in the rare case that you have a collision
 then you do this. And so I want to introduce you to the person who invented Ethernet. This
 is Robert Metcalf and he was working at Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, PARC, everyone
 calls it PARC. And they were building what is most considered the first computer, the
 Alto computers. They were connecting line printers or fast printers to these. Xerox was building
 the first laser printers and they needed something faster and so they just started building it.
 And they built this thing called Ethernet. Now it's a little different than the Ethernet
 that we see. The first Ethernet that they built is a little different. You can see a
 picture of it down here. If you ever go to Xerox PARC and get in you'll go see this little
 museum they have. It used a single piece of cable that ran along, they just ran it down
 the hallway and they would connect a tap in and then they would use that to send the data.
 So it would go down the hallway and a tap would come out in each office and they were
 truly sharing the media. This is not shared except when you plug it into a hub, that's
 what makes this shared. And it was inspired by an earlier wireless network where they
 were doing not collision detection but retransmission called ALOHA. And a lot of early packet network
 inspiration comes from the ALOHAnet from University of Hawaii. And because they didn't have anything
 except wireless, but they did have wireless, they did a lot of really cool early research
 on wireless. And so let's go ahead and meet Bob Metcalf, the inventor, one of the inventors
 of Ethernet.
