 Hello and welcome to the transport layer. We're working our way up from the bottom of our four
 layer architecture up to the top. So we're kind of at the halfway point. We've covered
 the link layer like ethernet and then we covered the internet work layer, which is kind of like
 the postcard layer. So let's, let's review the magic of IP, right? The magic IP is this postcard
 layer that bounces these packets with from addresses and to addresses through, you know,
 15 or so hops, getting them there, getting packets to their destination network from one network to
 another network as well as it can. And then when it gets to the destination network, it finds the
 final computer on that network. The magic of this is there is no interim long-term storage inside
 the network. All the long-term storage is outside. And now we're going to talk about that. So one of
 the things that makes IP so fast is that it is not demanded to be perfect. It is not demanded
 to deliver data in order. And it's not demanded to, there's no requirement that it doesn't lose data.
 It's fast and barely ever loses data, but when it does, there's a layer to recover. And that's what
 we're going to talk about next. So the internet protocol is this multi hop packets can take
 multiple paths. They can make use of all kinds of crazy links, but now we're going to move up one,
 right? We're going to move up to the TCP layer. So the TCP layer is both simple and complex.
 The purpose of the TCP layer is to compensate for the possible errors in the IP layer, as well as
 make best use of available resources. So if the overall network from here to here is extremely
 fast, we want to send data really fast, right? If on the other hand, the overall network from
 here to here is really slow, we want to send data slowly and be efficient. Because remember,
 part of the goal of the TCP IP networking is to share effectively. And so we need to be aware of
 whether our network is fast or slow. And those are the kinds of problems we solve the TCP layer. How
 fast is the underlying network? How reliable is it? And if something goes wrong, what do we do to
 deal with that? So the key idea in TCP IP is that when we send some data, we break it into packets,
 and then we send each one, and then we keep them until they get an acknowledgement from the other
 side. And then and only then do we throw them away. And at some point, if a packet gets lost,
 it can be sent again, and again, and again, until it finally is acknowledged in the destination
 system. And so that's basically what TCP does is it figures out which packets have or have not made
 it across the internet layer. So here's an example scenario. So we got a message, it's broken up into
 five packets, we've got sort of the first 100 characters, the first characters, the second,
 and third packet. Now, what TCP does is it speculatively sends a few packets says, okay,
 let's let's get ahead, because if you sent one and waited, then you might not make best use the
 network. So you kind of guess and dump a few packets out there. And so you send let's say we
 send three packets, queue them up for sending and as fast as we can send them out the back of our
 network, we start spooling them out the back of their network. And somehow two of them make it
 across the internet to the destination, but somehow that poor second packet just like every
 time I'm doing a lecture, the poor second packet never gets it. You don't want to be the second
 packet in one of my lectures, because you're going to get it. But somehow the second packet
 has gotten vaporized. Now time passes. And the receiver gets this
 sensation that maybe, maybe, maybe something's missing. And so it sends an acknowledgement back.
 And it says, I'm going to send a note back that says, look, I'm ready for 200. I do have 100 and
 I'm ready for 200. Matter of fact, I may even throw away 300 because it's been so long.
 So I want you to start me over at 200. But sender all of a sudden knows that 100 has been sent.
 And so it knows that it can throw this one away now, right? It's been acknowledged.
 So there's an acknowledgement stream that goes back and forth. So now the sender
 says 200 and 300. And then they make it across. The receiver says, I've got 200.
 This is the 300. And then they send 400 speculatively. 300 makes it, 400 makes it.
 And the receiver says, I got 400, which means now it can cross off 300 and 400, right? Check those
 off and throw them away and then send 500 cross. And then at some point check those off. It's got
 500. And now the sender can sort of like empty, check everything off. Everything's been sent.
 And it's been acknowledged and we know. And so that's kind of an oversimplified view of the kind
 of bookkeeping that's going on on both sides of a TCP connection. And so this right here is in a
 sense, the genius of the internet, the storage requirements in the middle, the routers, this is
 the IP basically, the network of networks. We didn't design these to require a lot of storage.
 We wanted them to be fast. We wanted them to be agile. We want to be dynamic. We wanted to be
 clever, but we also gave them right to fail. So we didn't demand storage. We didn't say, hey,
 hold on to packets all over the place. Just store up piles of packets. Piles of packets
 would pile up in these. We don't ask that. No router has to keep the packets. As a matter of
 fact, routers are supposed to throw packets away to communicate back and forth between the system
 that maybe things aren't working so well and don't use me to get to California. This, on the other
 hand, with hundreds, maybe, you know, hundreds of thousands or millions of routers, but billions of
 computers on the outside. So we need a way to make this reliable. So we need to have memory to store
 the packets while they're in flight so we can retransmit, but we store the packets in the computers
 that are outside. And there are billions of these computers. There are billions of them. Every
 computer that you carry around, every laptop. Every time we add another computer to the network,
 we add storage for packets that are being sent. So when your computer or phone is sending across
 the network, it is responsible for retaining its own copies. It does not expect the inner part of
 the network to do so. And that is absolutely brilliant. So it's what really makes this work.
 And so that's kind of a great oversimplification of what's going on. And it turns out that there
 is still a lot of engineering to make that happen.
 So I'd like to introduce you to another of the innovators that we meet in this class. His name
 is Van Jacobson. And I met up with him at Xerox PARC. He did the work we're going to talk about
 while he was at Berkeley. And in the late 1980s, there was this prediction that the internet was
 going to die. And it seems obvious that it's a good idea now. But back then, there was a bunch
 of folks that felt like academics weren't smart enough to make a network. And they were like IBM
 and Digital Equipment that thought they, the vendors, should make the network and we should
 just pay them to use their network. And as the NSF net was coming up, and more and more computers
 were being connected and the backbone was so slow, it started to fail. And it looked like the
 predictions of all of the computer vendors that said academics couldn't build a robust, scalable
 network were going to be true. And so Van Jacobson tells the story very differently. But the way I
 saw the story happening and unfolding in 1987 is Van Jacobson saved us. The network was crashing.
 And we all installed Van Jacobson patches and the network got better. And in my recollection,
 this was the last time it appeared that the entire internet was going to crash.
 So we named it the Van Jacobson Protocol. And he doesn't like to call it the Van Jacobson Protocol
 because he's a shy and unassuming guy. But I think he saved us. And so this interview is
 him describing sort of that moment back in the late '80s where he invented the slow start algorithm
 that really is part and parcel of every TCP implementation that you have on every computer
 that you use. As a matter of fact, it's being used to do flow control on this lecture right this
 second as we speak. So here's Van Jacobson.
