 So now we have a way to ensure the confidentiality using secure socket layer and public-private key
 encryption. And the only question now remaining is who are we talking to? And are we talking to that
 server that we think we're talking to? Are we really talking to Amazon? Are we really talking
 to Coursera? How do we know? Now, you'll notice if you take a look at the top of your browser,
 perhaps right now even, you can take a look at the top of your browser and usually when it's
 indicating that you have a secure connection, you can click on this and see some information.
 It's called the certificate information. Okay. And so HTTPS has the notion of a public key.
 We retrieve the public key when we make the connection. But there are two kinds of keys.
 There are public keys that are just made up that are sent to us. And then there are public keys
 that are signed and validated by a third party certification authority. So this is a Coursera
 and it is certified by GoDaddy certification authority. So it's not just that we're getting
 the certificate from Coursera. We're actually getting the certificate signed by GoDaddy.
 The GoDaddy has checked the ID of Coursera, said, okay, you must be the CEO of Coursera or I'm not
 going to give you this signed private key. So it's a process to get private keys signed and it's a way
 to make sure you're talking to who you think you're talking to. So this is called digital
 certificates, also known as sort of signed private keys. Now, if we go back and we talk about the
 integrity, right, we want to know who we're talking about. And so we had this notion of a signature.
 A signature is a way that you know that you're talking to who you're talking to. So for example,
 like if a guy comes to your office and says, hi, I'm Dr. Chuck, got like a beard and some
 white hair, you can say, hey, if you're really Dr. Chuck, show me your tattoo. And now you will know
 that very few people will also look like this and have this tattoo, right? So this is my private key
 and this is my signature of my private key. This is like my message digest. So people won't have
 this tattoo if they claim to be Dr. Chuck. So this is Dr. Chuck, this is my message digest.
 So there's a difference between a private key and a private key that's been certified
 by one of these designated third parties. These designated third parties are called certificate
 authorities. Now you could say, I'm a certificate authority. Well, some certificate authorities are
 more better certificate authorities than others, okay? So they're a trusted third party.
 And so how did they start? Well, some are more trusted than others and the more we trust them,
 they kind of all work out. So it's not everybody, you can't become a trusted authority. So one of
 the many trusted authorities and one of the oldest ones and one of the more popular ones and one of
 the more expensive ones, it's pretty expensive to get your certificate signed. It can be as
 inexpensive as a couple hundred dollars. It can be thousands of dollars to get a certificate signed.
 And VeriSign is one of the oldest and most well-respected of these certificate authorities.
 So the idea is that I have this website called online.drchuck.com where I teach Python classes
 and do various other things. And I wanted to secure a certificate because I would be handling
 people's data and I wanted to be respectable and have a secure certificate. So I had a public in a
 private key and then I sent it to a certificate authority. I paid them money and then they sent
 me back a signed private key, okay? So this is a, now you might say, oh, this is kind of evil or
 this is really expensive because all they really are doing is like changing a few bits in my private
 key or adding a few bits to my private key. But they have a lot of responsibility and the good
 ones have a lot of credibility so they don't want to lose information. They got to spend some time
 validating identity saying, okay, are you really the owner of drchuck.com? They're not going to
 hand a certificate, a signed certificate for drchuck.com to anybody except the true owner.
 And so they spend some time checking to make sure that it's the true owner. And they do this by
 looking at the registration data and drchuck.com, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And so there is
 a cost of verifying all this identity, kind of like the signature track on Coursera. And that's
 kind of what's going on in the signature track of the Coursera. There's a difference between a
 certificate and a certificate that Coursera is going to assert that we have verified the identity
 and the cost is in the verification of the identity. So certificate authorities are
 charging Amazon, but then ensuring that they don't mistakenly give the amazon.com certificate
 to a random bad guy. Because if they did, that bad guy could pretend to be amazon.com.
 So then you might ask, who decides which of these certificate authorities to trust? We use the
 certificate authorities to decide whether or not to trust amazon.com or corsera.org or drchuck.com
 or whatever. How do we decide which of the certificate authorities we're going to trust?
 Well, it turns out that apple, microsoft and linux and other operating system vendors
 pre-install at the moment that you're either purchasing your computer or installing your
 operating system. Part of that operating system is actually a list of the public keys of the
 chosen certificate authority. So if you look deep enough inside your computer, this is my mac,
 you can see the companies that have been included by apple as the manufacturer of the operating
 system. And so you see that verisign is one of those companies that has been pre-included
 in apple macintosh, which means that a certificate from verisign is going to be known, right? So
 let's look a little bit more. So these come, your browsers and your operating systems come with
 pre-built-in public key certificates for certain certificate authorities like verisign.
 Now that's a lot of trust that apple, microsoft and linux have placed in verisign. And that's
 because over the years verisign has earned that trust that says verisign doesn't just get out
 certificates without checking, right? If verisign gave out an amazon.com certificate to somebody
 without checking, they would lose a lot of credibility. And then microsoft would like
 take them out, right? Say, well, verisign seems to be kind of sleazy. They seem not to be able to
 to handle their security, but you know, they have. And so they remain in there. And so we,
 it's kind of an interesting thing where they are motivated to keep their security high.
 They're motivated to do a good job because the moment that they sort of fail, they lose a lot of
 credibility and respect and their value of verisign brand and is all of the respect that we have for
 verisign. So, so. So we mentioned public private key encryption. We have the public key that goes
 across and I'm about to type my credit card in. And so the problem now that we're going to solve
 is on, is this really amazon's key? Is it really amazon's public key? I mean, I got a public key
 from across this connection I made to a server and it claims that it's amazon.com, but do I believe
 that it says it's amazon.com? And so that's the integrity thing. That's the security. That's the,
 do I believe it? Is it really got the verisign tattoo in addition to the amazon.com? It represents
 that it's amazon.com's public key. So we can also use public keys to do signing and, and basically
 verisign has a public and private key for verisign. The public key for verisign is sitting in your
 browser right now and they use, they do an encryption much like the message digest. They
 do an encryption of amazon's certificate and then sort of create a digest and then add that digest
 to it. So a certificate says I'm amazon.com and later it says, oh yes, and verisign signed this
 with verisign's private key. Okay. So verisign's private key is used to sign amazon. This is
 probably easiest if I just show you sort of a video. Wait, I'm going the wrong way. Am I
 going the wrong way? What's going on here? Come on, I'm going the wrong way. Yeah, I'm going the
 wrong way. Okay. So here we go. Going backwards. So here's how it works. This is how amazon gets a
 public key signed by verisign, right? So in the beginning, verisign makes a public and a private
 key somewhere in a bunker and they store the private key and they'll, you can sometimes read
 up on how many, how much effort they go to storing the private key and then they hand the public key
 to apple, microsoft and linux and then they bundle that in with your laptop. So your laptop that you
 buy, you walk out and you have a laptop and it's got public keys in it from the vendor. Now amazon
 says, you know what? I'd like to do some commerce and I would like to be able to
 use SSL and, and have a certified private key. So then what amazon does
 is amazon inside of its servers generates a pair, a public private key pair.
 So this private key is not leaving amazon servers. It's, it takes a while. It takes minutes sometimes
 generate the right random, sufficiently random public and private key by looking at all the
 large prime numbers and then picking one and then bang, making a public and private key.
 Then what amazon does at that point is it transports its public key to verison. Now during
 that transport, it might, eve might have seen it, but it's okay because it's just, it's just a public
 key, right? So it's just the public key and so it actually can be sent across the internet and it's
 most commonly sent across the internet. Like when I got the online.drchuck.com certificates,
 we just typed it in and sent it because if you get a hold of the public key, all it means is
 you can encrypt. It doesn't mean you can decrypt. So then what happens is inside of verizon's servers
 verizon computes a message digest using its public, its private key, right? And then it
 adds basically a signature that says, oh, here's amazon's public key that I received from amazon,
 verified the identity of the person, and now I have signed it. Mr verison, I've signed it.
 And that of course is just like message digest, like information that is appended to the bits of
 the public key. Then that public key with signature is sent back
 bundled together and sent back to amazon. And now amazon has not just any old public key.
 It has a public key that says, I am amazon.com and verizon is now asserting that I am really who I am.
 And again, so eve saw that one. Who cares? It's just a public key. There's nothing about the
 verizon private key. It never left the verizon servers. The signature is public information.
 You can use the verizon public key to verify that the signature is right, but you can't forge the
 signature. So eve can look at that. Eve could look going this way. Eve can look that way. Eve gets
 nothing. Eve gets nothing. So amazon now has a signed and certified private key. Then what happens
 is sooner or later, many hours, many days, many months later, you decide on your laptop,
 remember this is you, oops, this is you. You want to buy some shoes. So you connect amazon.com with
 your browser, with an HTTPS connection. And then what happens is amazon sends you its public key.
 And eve of course is eavesdropping all the time. Eve sees it goes by. It's worthless, right? It's
 worthless because it's just the encryption key. It's not the decryption key. The fact that it's
 signed, it sees that, but it can't do anything with that information. Now within your laptop,
 within your laptop, you have from the vendor, the verizon public key from macintosh or apple or
 whatever. So you can look with this public key at that signature. And just like we did with the
 message digest before, you can go, yep, that's good. That really had to have been signed by
 verizon. And if your computer is really conservative, it can actually go check with
 verizon, can send it up and say, hey, did you verify this? And then verizon can verify it too.
 But you actually don't need to connect because you have the public key. The only way that the,
 the, you know, whatever that message digest could be right would be is if verizon,
 it's private key was used to generate the message digest, just like we used to do santa
 in the other one. Okay. The Santa is just really simple, but it's the same basic mechanism.
 This is verifiable that it came from this private key. Now, if somebody broke in
 and stole the private key, that's a different story. But if the private key is safe and secure,
 hasn't been compromised, the only way to generate that message digest is to be in
 possession of the private key. So now you are in a position where you are in a good mood, right?
 You see an HTTPS, you can pop that little thing and say that was signed by verizon.
 You can be assured that verizon is asserting that that key came really, that probably key came from
 Amazon. And now is time to encrypt your visa card and send it over an encrypted connection to Amazon.
 Okay. Because you won't send your encrypted thing. You're, you're, you're, you won't send it
 unless you believe that the HTTPS is proper and your browser will pop up a little pop up and say,
 wait a sec, this certificate looks a little funky claims to be from amazon.com, but it's not signed
 by one of the signatures that I believe in. So you send your data, it is encrypted and Eve is
 watching, right? Eve is always watching, but because it's encrypted with a public key,
 unless Eve has supercomputers in a couple of months, there's nothing that Eve can do.
 And then of course, Amazon decrypts it using the private key. So the private key comes in.
 Right? So in it comes Eve watches, but is helpless
 because they don't have enough computers. Eve doesn't have enough computers and your key is
 large enough. So Amazon then takes its private key and uses that to decrypt it and ends up with your
 plain text again. So if you think this whole thing through this, Eve was watching the whole time.
 We sent a public key, we signed and returned a public key. Then we sent the public key to
 your laptop. We verified the public key and the whole time Eve is sort of watching all this
 information and she is powerless to break it. Pretty dang clever if you ask me. And we can thank
 Diffie, Hellman and Merkel for that. Pretty darn clever because Eve sees it all. Just think what
 would happen if like the Germans had this in World War II. Would have been pretty cool. Of course,
 they didn't have computers. So it'd have been difficult. I don't know. Too much to think about
 right now. Okay. Continuing on. So what we have is we have this thing called the certificate
 authority, which is a trusted third party that signs these certificates. Right? And so it's the,
 it's an entity that issues digital signatures on public keys so that we the public have a way
 of validating that an amazon.com certificate really came from amazon.com. So if you then add
 this all together, right? If you add this all together, we have basic public private key
 encryption that makes sure that this data can move across the internet, out of your computer,
 out back into the next one, all encrypted. That's just public private that does that.
 And then we have this third party certificate authority that your application can use to
 validate the certificate that comes out. And so the combination of SSL or the secure sockets layer
 and the certificate authority gives us high confidence that when we're talking to something,
 we know we're really talking to it. So it's pretty non intrusive security. If your browser pops up
 with a little pop up message, that means it's got a certificate that it has no certificate of
 authority to validate. And that's not a good time to be typing in sensitive information unless you
 know exactly what's going on. So that sort of brings us to the conclusion of this. This,
 these last couple of lectures have been about message confidentiality and that is protecting
 the contents from being revealed. We use encrypting and decrypting for that. And then we have message
 digest and to sign things. We've signed messages, we've signed certificates, we've signed many
 things and those are important. And we talked about both sort of shared key and secret key where you
 have to get together and agree on a key, which is a symmetric key that's used for encrypting and
 decrypting. And then you have the public private key, which is the asymmetric, which is one key is
 used for encrypting and the other key is used for decrypting. And you can freely show the encrypting
 key because it gives very little information, although it is mathematically possible, but
 difficult to decrypt a public private key message. So that kind of sums up, that kind of sums up our
 lecture on public private keys and I hope you find it valuable. See you on the net.
