 So now we just finished talking about basic confidentiality using simple Caesar cipher.
 And we'll get better before we'll be more sophisticated than that because Caesar ciphers are trivially breakable, obviously.
 But now we're going to switch from confidentiality to integrity.
 And we're worried about the message, just to review, that confidentiality means we're hiding information.
 We just don't want Eve to see it because Eve sees the ciphertext.
 And we want her to never be able to extract the plain text.
 And as we saw in the last lecture, you, if I'm just using a Caesar cipher,
 I mean, there was little or nothing I could do to stop you from doing it.
 All you'd do is enough work and you would figure out the shift and then you'd have everything.
 So it would take you, you know, you'd write a program.
 It would take you like a thousandth of a second to check all possible things and you're done.
 So that's confidentiality. Now we're going to talk about integrity, right?
 And we're going to kind of assume confidentiality or perhaps assume it's not necessary
 because we're transporting it in a locked box or in a whatever.
 But let's just say I had some piece of paper, right?
 And you'd want it to know if this piece of paper really came from you.
 Well, we would use things like a signature, right?
 Or we would use a bit of wax where we would push the, our seal on it and the seal only belonged to us.
 But, but really did signatures can be forged.
 You know, people can steal the wax imprint thing.
 I mean, in Roman times they would wear it around their neck to make sure that no one stole it.
 But you could also just create a fake one so you could seal your letter with the wax.
 But, and you break the wax seal. But in the computer world, we need something, right?
 We need a situation where, where perhaps, I mean, my wife had to get a prescription
 and they sent her an email with a prescription in it.
 And this prescription had on the end of it a digital signature.
 It was just a bunch of numbers. And you think to yourself, wow, you know, here's this prescription.
 And at the end it just has a bunch of numbers and that's the digital signature from the doctor.
 And how does that work? Well, it, it works surprisingly well.
 And, and that message can be forwarded. She can print it out.
 She can scan it. She can send it to a pharmacist via email.
 And as long as that signature's in there, we can know that the data originally came from the doctor.
 And that, that you didn't, no one modified it to be a different kind of prescription.
 Like a different amount or a different drug.
 And, and then that would invalidate the signature. And how exactly is that done?
 Well, it's done using a technique called cryptographic hashing.
 And it is a bit of computer software, a bit of code that takes a large amount of text
 and reduces it down to some small set of numbers, a large block of data to a fixed length set of numbers.
 And, and the message is the big thing and the digest is the little thing.
 It's sort of, it's like it digests it and sort of gives you this little tiny thing.
 Now the key is there are many different techniques to, to map from a message to the hash or the digest.
 And some are better than others.
 And it turns out that there is a long-term whole field of mathematics and computer science
 that is dedicated to understanding what a good cryptographic hash might be.
 And so there, there are these well-known cryptographic hashes that you may have heard of, like SHA-1 or MD5.
 Each of those is the result of many, many years of research of thinking through what a good cryptographic hash is.
 So, for example, one cryptographic hash might be, I sign it with a number of characters in the message.
 That would be something that says, like, well, at least they didn't expand or contract the number of characters in the message.
 But then at some point that would be such an obvious thing that you would change the signature as well.
 So you want to make it so you can't change the message and change the signature because then you're sort of properly forging a signature.
 So the hash function that takes the message to create the digest,
 that's something that is a scientific mathematical research effort to get the thing right.
 Okay. So here is an example of a hash function.
 Now, this hash function takes as message input on one side, right?
 It takes message input of, and this can be short, medium, or extremely long messages.
 And the digest is always a fixed size. It's always a fixed size, right?
 Some get longer than others. Different message hashing functions give different length, but they're all fixed.
 And they're fixed even if the input is megabytes. It can be megabytes, hundreds of megabytes.
 And you can still run all that through the hash function and get a digest.
 And so the key thing is to make it so that for any change in the input, the digest also changes.
 And so here we have the red fox jumps over the blue dog, right? And that's the hash that comes out.
 And if we change one letter, you know, the V to a U, the hash changes dramatically.
 So this hash changes dramatically. So this suggests this is a good cryptographic hash function, right?
 The length didn't change. All the characters are the same, but one character changed and the hash function changes completely, okay?
 And here is another flipping of characters, right, where from here to here, excuse me, better color here. Which color is that?
 From here to here, the V and the E were just toggled. And yet from here to here, the hash function is completely different.
 And so the hash function needs to generate quite different hashes, even with tiny perturbations of the input.
 You're not even allowed to change one character or add or remove character.
 And they know when a cryptographic hash function is bad, if they can take two different messages and send it through and get the same digest.
 And so there's a lot of research to try to, as soon as they come up with one of these things,
 there is a massive amount of research to try to disprove it, to say that's a bad one.
 And the bad one is if two different messages come in and they come out with the same hash function,
 then that's bad because it means that it's provable, provably that the signature could use, the same signature could be used to sign two different input messages.
 Okay, so this hash function, function is a bit of computer code, right?
 And, you know, SHA1, you can go look on Wikipedia for SHA1 or MD5. These are kind of classic hash functions.
 And when you read the SHA1 or MD5 Wikipedia, they'll talk about the fact that it's been decided it's kind of flawed.
 And so there's like SHA1, don't use it. It's not cool.
 Now you can use it for less critical things. You just have to be aware of what its limitations are.
 So like SHA256 is better than SHA1.
 So what happens is there's continuous research and there's continuous improvement in the mathematics of these hashing functions.
 And they're getting really good at it because we've been using these things for a very, very, very long time.
 Now, if you want to play, let me clear this up.
 So I've got a simple SHA1 calculator and you'll be using this in the homework.
 The SHA1 calculator takes as input some kind of a plain text and it produces output when you hit the thing.
 So you can put in Pony or Fluffy or whatever, or even a whole bunch of stuff, and it produces a SHA1.
 So basically, get ready to use this because the next upcoming exercises are going to use this.
 And you can read SHA1 about SHA1 on Wikipedia and you can find out like, yeah, it's seen as less than perfect and you should use SHA256 or whatever.
 But actually, lots of applications in less than critical situations know that for short and reasonably length strings, the flaws are mathematically found, but they're not commonly run into.
 So SHA1 is not horrible. It's just been proven sort of less than ideal.
 And so for highly sensitive information, you would never use SHA1, but for simple things, SHA1 and even things like MD5 are commonly used, like for hashing passwords.
