 - Hello, and welcome to our security lecture.
 I'm Charles Severance, and I encourage
 you to grab the PowerPoints and remix them and use them
 in your own courses.
 Use the videos.
 Use everything in your own courses.
 You don't have to teach this whole course.
 It's quite a bit.
 So let's start out by meeting some nice people.
 These people are Alice and Bob, and they simply
 want to communicate some information left
 to their own devices.
 And they don't want the rest of the world
 to know about what they're communicating,
 and so they want to encrypt it some way.
 Now, in the cryptography world, they all
 call these two people, the good people, Alice and Bob.
 And they simply are A and B, very computer-esque variable
 names, A and B, and Alice and Bob.
 And then there's some bad guys.
 There's the bad guys, and often they
 are called C, like Carol, or Carlos, or Charlie,
 or something like that.
 They're even Chuck.
 Even Chuck is a bad guy.
 Or Dave or Eve, Eve for the eavesdropper.
 And the idea is somewhere in the middle here,
 somewhere in the middle, you have
 some person with bad intent.
 Here we have Trinity from The Matrix,
 and she looks as bad as you can look, right?
 So Alice and Bob seem to be real happy people.
 They're just trying to get things done
 and send some information without being bothered.
 And then Trinity's there eavesdropping.
 But there's other things.
 You can eavesdrop.
 You can sort of redirect the message and change it.
 There's all kinds of things that the bad guy in the middle
 is going to do.
 And so Alice and Bob are far away from each other,
 and they have to communicate securely.
 And it's a literal gauntlet of problems
 that they have to face, and various people
 with bad intent, with bad purposes, sometimes just
 wanting to see what's going on versus wanting
 to change what's going on versus completely redirect
 communication.
 So Alice, Bob, and then a whole series of bad guys
 with various bad guys and gals with various evil intent.
