 - So it's always fun to talk about security
 because the question is, is you,
 and what does security mean to you,
 and what does it mean to me?
 And whenever you're thinking about security,
 you gotta figure out sort of who is out to get you
 and why are they out to get you.
 And for us average people, we are so boring
 that literally pretty much the only thing
 the world wants from us is they wanna steal our,
 you know, they wanna steal our credit card numbers
 and then buy stuff with them for just a couple of days
 before the credit card company shuts them down.
 Now, if you're running for public office,
 there's a whole bunch of your opponents
 that are gonna want to break into your email
 and that happens, right?
 Those kind of shenanigans happen.
 So if you're interesting or influential
 or running for public office,
 you have a different problem
 than if you're just kind of a mere civilian like us.
 And so at the end of the day, you can worry about security
 and you can kind of wear tin foil clothing or something,
 but at the end of the day,
 you and I are so boring that nobody really cares.
 But it's good to assume that they're out to get you, right?
 That you try to be as secure as you can
 and be aware of your environment
 and be as secure as you possibly can
 with your information and with your communications.
 So who is out to get us?
 Well, the government.
 So now we're gonna actually turn the tables, right?
 In the very first lecture, we were the good guys.
 The good guys were the ones
 who were trying to break the Kurtag free.
 And the bad guys were the ones
 that were trying to hide their bad messages.
 And the government were the good guys in Bletchley Park
 and they broke the codes
 and they saved Western civilization.
 Yay, good guys.
 Well now, we're the Germans.
 We're the Japanese.
 We're trying to communicate.
 People are watching.
 And guess what?
 It's the same people.
 The government, the government's most likely interested
 in what you're doing.
 Again, most of us are so boring,
 the government doesn't really care at all.
 But the government has probably the best security
 breaking equipment on the planet right now,
 better than the criminals.
 And so it's just an interesting flip of the model, right?
 Where now we are trying to communicate
 and the government with all of their bombas
 and little rotating devices sitting in some warehouse
 somewhere that we don't know
 is taking our private communications
 and they're trying to break them.
 And we are in a war trying to make our communications
 more and more secure while the government says,
 whoa, we have to invent like electronic computers.
 Because we have to have bigger computers
 because the people, us good guys now
 who are doing the encrypting,
 we are trying to come up with more
 and more clever ways to encrypt.
 And the government has to keep coming up with ways to decrypt.
 And you could cast this as criminals versus good folks.
 You could cast these governments versus governments.
 At the end of the day, it's an arms race
 and it's rather symmetric as to which side you're on, right?
 I mean, we started out with the people
 trying to hide the information, we're the bad guys.
 And now we're the good guys.
 Why are we the good guys?
 'Cause it's us.
 As soon as we decide it's us, we're the good guys.
 Here's a little picture I took a couple of years ago
 when I visited Bletchley Park.
 This actually led to the video a year and a half later.
 And in this, my friend who works at the Open University,
 who also does massively open online courses,
 that's Joel, he's now retired.
 He's the tour guide there and a dear and personal friend.
 And another of my dear and personal friends
 whose face you can't see is right here.
 His name is Chuck.
 He currently works at Shazam in London.
 And he and I just got away for the weekend
 and went up to Bletchley Park and took a tour.
 Now, just a little interesting connection.
 I sort of mentioned in a previous lecture about The Matrix.
 So you notice that Chuck here is wearing a jacket
 from the movie Matrix.
 I mentioned he was the one that wrote
 the hacking scene with Trinity.
 So here we all are together.
 We're at Bletchley Park.
 Alan Turing had an office in this.
 This is one of Alan Turing's offices at Bletchley Park.
 Here's Joel, open teaching and learning.
 Here is Chuck, worked on The Matrix.
 And here's Trinity, right?
 Except that now Trinity is our enemy instead of our friend.
 Although in the movie, we are rooting for Trinity.
 But we are the ones trying to protect
 what we're doing from the Trinities of the world.
 We're the good guys now and Trinity is the bad gal.
 She's the bad lady trying to break into our stuff.
 And we're protecting ourselves against Trinity.
 So tables have completely turned, OK?
 So before we go too far, you'll run into your organizations
 with lots of people who are like security experts.
 And I find security experts generally
 very annoying because they think they're smarter than they are.
 Security experts have this theory
 that more security is better.
 And the reality is that perfect security is unachievable.
 If you want perfect security, like lock yourself in a room
 and whisper to somebody, oh, wait a sec.
 And then the guard will come in and hear you or whatever.
 There'll be a microphone.
 So the notion that perfect security and that your company
 can spend more and more and more money of its budget
 on security just because the security expert thinks
 that you should is really kind of a fallacy.
 Security is a cost benefit analysis.
 And so if you think of credit card companies,
 what's the security of this number?
 I won't show you the number.
 But what if I lose this number?
 What's the consequences?
 I've had many credit cards that got compromised.
 I don't exactly know how.
 They've got software inside of the computer companies
 that catches, like when all of a sudden I live in Michigan
 and a bunch of charges at the New Jersey Walmart are showing up
 and I never got on a plane.
 I'm amazed at how rare it is that your identity actually
 gets lost permanently.
 So I'm really impressed with how the banks are capable.
 And so they have this number that
 makes it real convenient for us to buy.
 We can type it into a web form.
 We can do all these things.
 And one in a zillion times it gets compromised.
 And so they lose $50.
 But billions of dollars of commerce happen.
 So there is always a security versus cost.
 If basically, for me to use this credit card,
 I had to have sort of a personal guard from the company
 with me all the time, it'd be very expensive for me
 to buy stuff on Amazon and have it shipped to my house.
 And so understand that when you start getting into conversations
 with security, professionals, sometimes they're
 the kind that understand that security is naturally
 imperfect and everything is a cost-benefit analysis,
 rather than more security is always better.
 So more is not always better.
 That's just my little speech about security
 in case you get stuck in a conversation with some pompous
 security expert.
 They're mostly pompous.
 So database administrator pompous, too.
 But hope you're not a database administrator security expert.
 But the best security experts that I've ever met
 are the ones that understand this.
 And they can characterize every issue
 in terms of a cost-benefit analysis.
 And then you know that you've run
 into one that's really smart and bright.
 So the terminology that we're going
 to use for the rest of the segments of this lecture,
 we're going to be solving two basic problems.
 One is confidentiality.
 And the confidentiality is the leakage of information.
 So if I was to want to send this credit card number to one
 of you watching right now without the rest of you
 seeing my credit card number, the mere revealing
 of that information is the problem.
 So I want to come up with a way to send it to you
 so that no one except the one person that I want to see it
 gets it.
 That's confidentiality.
 The other problem is one of integrity.
 And that is, in a sense, knowing that A,
 that the information that you've got
 comes from who you thought it came from,
 and B, that it wasn't modified on the way.
 So there are things like digital signatures
 that sort of fall into this category
 and other mechanisms that we'll talk about.
 So these two themes of confidentiality and integrity
 will run through the rest of the lectures
 that we have on security.
 So coming up next, we're going to start diving right in.
