 Welcome to Internet History, Technology, and Security.
 My name is Charles Severance, and I'm a faculty member at the University of Michigan's School of Information.
 I have been working on this course one way or another for nearly 20 years.
 For me, it actually goes back to when the Internet first started.
 That was in the mid-90s.
 And in the mid-90s, I had the good fortune to have some friends that decided to help me go on television.
 John Liskey, Amy Leahy, and Richard Wiggins.
 And we had a television show.
 First it was called Internet TCI, and then later it was called Nothing But Net, and then we called it North Coast Digital.
 But it gave me an excuse in the mid-90s to make a bunch of videos and film folks and just ultimately create an interesting oral history of the Internet.
 This is in the 90s, and we didn't even know how it was all going to turn out.
 So we were walking around, Richard Wiggins and I were walking around and filming all kinds of things.
 Another thing that I did in the late 90s was to build technology for teaching and learning on the Internet.
 I hold the distinction of being one of the first people to stream an entire semester online.
 I streamed it so early that I couldn't even stream video.
 I could stream audio using real audio, and I had a set of slides that would flip every few minutes.
 And you see a terrifying picture of me staring at you because there was no video in the upper left-hand corner of the screen.
 I went from the Michigan State University to University of Michigan in 1999,
 and I rebuilt a new lecture capture system that captured cameras and document cameras and screen capture and allowed for annotation. I called that Clipboard 2000.
 Everything back then was called Something 2000.
 In 2010, I was part of a group that was going to convert I Triply Computer Magazine from Paper Magazine to a digital magazine.
 And one of the ideas was we should have some videos.
 So what I would do for about five years is add a few days to a business trip and take my camera and go somewhere.
 I had two cameras and a little backpack and some lighting kit back in 2010, '11, '12, '13, and interview various people.
 And that let me complete my set of interesting people in the Internet.
 Some of the things that I did, I always sort of have a media bent to everything I do, is I would go around the country.
 You can go to find these at drchuck.com/office.
 And you can see 70 videos from all over the world of me meeting my students since 2013 when I first started teaching.
 As I said, the idea is that we can't look at technology without understanding history.
 And I want those with a liberal arts background to have a way into understanding technology because technology does not exist in a vacuum.
 Technology has continued to change and is going to continue to change.
 And if we don't take a look back, we will have no good idea about how to deal with the future.
 And so we need to understand the past as we look toward the future.
 So this material came from a course I taught from 2009 to 2017.
 Most of the course was a Python course, but about halfway through, right after the midterm exam,
 I gave everybody a break from Python and taught a couple of weeks of Internet history, technology, and security.
 And so that's what this course is. This course is the break from Python.
 Now in my programming for everybody curriculum, I kind of think of this as the first course, the place that you start.
 So the outline is starting with World War II going through 1999 as our history.
 Then we look at the technology from the ARPANET to the Internet, TCP/IP, and all those protocols.
 And then we take a look at the layer of security that makes all the kinds of commerce, et cetera, that we do on the Internet possible.
 So we start back in the beginning. I think of the beginning of computation, communication.
 That is the Internet and the technology we use on the Internet is going back to Bletchley Park.
 So I love Bletchley Park. I've often met my students at Bletchley Park and I look forward to the next time I get to go to Bletchley Park.
 So it's not practical for me to interact with the scalable class with hundreds, if not millions of students.
 And some of my classes do have millions of students. I mean, I watch things, but Twitter is probably the best way to get me.
 And I do want to know if something's broken. I don't. I don't. I want to fix things as fast as possible.
 So just a little bit about me if you're still listening. I do have two tattoos. These are real tattoos.
 On my left shoulder is my research and on my right shoulder is my education.
 And I've got three degrees from Michigan State University in engineering.
 And my faculty position is at the University of Michigan in the School of Library Science that's currently called the School of Information.
 On my right shoulder is my research. And my research since 1997 has been in building and using educational technology to teach.
 And all the logos are what I call the learning tools interoperability ring of compliance.
 And LTI is how we plug in all of my auto graders, et cetera, into these teaching systems.
 And so my research has been how to best teach with technology literally from 1995 until the present time.
 I have a race car, which is one of my hobbies, and my other hobby is hockey.
 And so that's a little bit about me. I have a number of folks to thank.
 A lot of the material here was the work I did for IEEE Computer Magazine while I was a while I was a writer for IEEE Computer Magazine.
 They've given me some permission to reuse some bits of it.
 Richard Wiggins, my lifelong friend who passed away sadly, he has allowed me to use all of his video material.
 And the copyright clearance is an important part of any free online course.
 And Open Michigan helped me with all of that.
 So with that, let's go ahead and get started.
