 Today, we're at Bletchley Park in honor of Alan Turing's 100th birthday.
 Bletchley Park, just north of London, in between Cambridge and Oxford, was considered by many
 as the birthplace of modern computer science.
 In 1938, again, anticipation of war, the government code and cipher scroll, and in the main, their
 operational director, a gentleman called Alastair Dennison, had drawn up a list.
 He had sent two people out to troll through the people at Oxford, and primarily Cambridge,
 and to some extent Oxford, and drew up a list of people who they approached, who agreed
 in the event of war, would report immediately to Bletchley Park.
 Britain declared war on September 3rd, 1939, the following day, September 4th, Turing and
 several others reported to Bletchley Park.
 As the requirement for more people was needed, some, predominantly a gentleman called Gordon
 Welchman, who had been on the initial list, he'd arrived the same day as Turing.
 He went back to Cambridge, and he started recruiting all his best students, and in effect,
 what they created here was the World's First Skunk Works, a secret innovative organization
 where there were no rules.
 Eventually, their main benefactor became the Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, and they
 persuaded Churchill that this place needed more resources.
 Churchill agreed, and he wrote a famous ... A letter was written by Welchman, Turing, and
 the two deputies to Churchill, and one other number, a gentleman called Stuart Millner-Berry
 actually delivered it in person to Downing Street.
 Churchill, amazingly, read the letter the same day it was delivered.
 He put a famous "Action This Day" stamp on it, with a handwritten note to his Chief of
 Staff, a chap called General Lismay, which said, "Expedite with extreme priority and
 report to me when it is done," and really from that point, September 1941, Bletchley
 Park got all the resources they needed.
 They threw, in effect, the smartest people together in Britain, and said, "Here's the
 budget.
 This is the end game," and that's why they invented some of these technologies that probably
 wouldn't have been invented for years.
 In many ways, Bletchley Park was an early version of a multidisciplinary science center,
 much like CERN or NCSA is today.
 Many brilliant people with different skills and backgrounds were brought together to solve
 difficult problems.
 The combination of the skills and collaborative environment resulted not in just solving the
 problems of cryptography that they were facing, but in addition, solved broader problems for
 all of computing and all of society.
 When the people arrived here, they knew when they arrived that the Germans had taken a
 machine, a machine which we tend to call Enigma.
 Enigma was a particular variant of an encryption machine.
 That machine was modified from the commercial version, and it allowed them to encrypt messages.
 This was going to become a machine to be used for operational communications, very short
 200, 250-character messages.
 Hitler had conceived, and as generals, a type of warfare never seen before, which became
 known as Blitzkrieg.
 Very fast movement, 50 miles a day, particularly when they invaded France and the latter stages
 of their invasion of Poland.
 You couldn't use fixed-line communications.
 You needed to use wireless communications.
 Here was a device which was portable, weighed 25 pounds, ran off a battery.
 You could encrypt messages, and then as a separate process, they could be sent using
 the fairly new technology of wireless radio.
 It was the Poles who were the first to recognize that the age of machine cryptography had arrived,
 and the sort of people who would be good at dealing with it were mathematicians.
 In fact, they even went so far as to put on a course in cryptography at the University
 of Poznan, invited 20 or 30 young German-speaking mathematicians to enroll.
 It was a very difficult course, and by the time the course was finished, there were really
 only three graduates who they recruited.
 Their names were Maryan Ryevsky, Hendrik Zagalsky, and Yezi Orozhitsky, and these three were
 the core of this team, and they are the ones who really made the early breakthroughs.
 They convened a conference at their secret headquarters.
 This was actually July '39, and at that conference, they gave the British everything.
 They revealed what they had done.
 They gave them a replica Enigma machine and all of their work.
 That information came back to Bletchley Park, and once they were established in Bletchley
 Park, they then used the Polish method to break the Enigma machine.
 The Poles had actually built some machines themselves, one of which was called a Bomba.
 That machine, the name apparently comes from a Polish ice cream dessert of the same name.
 It's in effect vanilla ice cream with chocolate sauce around it.
 This machine was called Bomb in honor of what the Poles did, but the Poles' technique was
 based on the particular way that, at that time, the Germans enciphered their message
 headers.
 They, at that point, were repeating the message header, and that was the attack which the
 Poles developed on it.
 They believed, correctly, that when the war would start, that the Germans would change
 the way they were doing that, and they called for help.
 They told Turing and the people here everything they'd done, which we are and should be very
 grateful, but they also proved that it was possible, and that, I think, was the spur
 that kicked the Brits into actually doing something about it.
 Now, Turing understood the weaknesses of the way they'd done it, and developed a crib-based
 mechanism based on the fact that every military organization in the world cannot stop itself
 sending stereotyped messages.
 He then talked to a brilliant team of engineers, led by Doc Keane, who told him roughly the
 speed that it would be possible to examine potential stops for.
 Between them, they then designed the machine called Bomb, which would look for that and
 do so in a sensible time.
 Here is an example where we have intercepted this message SNMKG.
 We're pretty sure that that is, because this particular operator always did this, this
 is his morning weather forecast.
 So here we have the guest German plain text, "Wetter für Herr Zarger," "Weather forecast."
 And the two are lined up.
 At that point, the enigmas' ability or inability to encode a letter as itself is useful, because
 you can make sure you've got no clashes here.
 And from these guest letters, the crib makers would derive a picture like this called a
 menu where you'll notice that at position ZZE here, G is encoded as E, so we have G
 going to E. At ZZP at the end here, E goes to V. This is reversible, of course.
 We can describe this the other way up.
 So here's E to V, that's ZZG here, S is going to V, so here's another link.
 And eventually we can go all the way around and we can close this loop like that.
 It was the closed loops that they were looking for.
 The operation of the Bomb was simply that if there is a letter which you can feed in
 at this point and which comes around through a string of one, two, three, four, five, six
 enigmas and comes back as that same letter, then it's possible a position of these wheels
 match the position of the wheels when Gunther started encoding his message on his enigma.
 It turned out to be a bit more picky about loops and menus than perhaps they had hoped,
 although it worked, and at that point Welchman added a completely left field master stroke
 called the diagonal board, which I think it is fair to say made the difference between
 success and failure to Turing's original idea.
 And here are my three diagonal boards.
 That's one, that's the other.
 This is the third one, kind of any place where you can't see it, but can you see Z down to
 A, okay?
 There's nothing connecting that to the machine, it's just bolted there for convenience.
 The only connections to the machine are when you connect X into one of the enigmas.
 What will happen is when we turn the machine on, you'll see it will run up to speed, okay?
 The motor will be running and the clutch will drop in, then you'll see the various carry
 mechanisms happening, and then when we stop the machine, you'll see it slow down and then
 the clutch drops out.
 So, Tony, if you'd run it up for us please.
 Would you turn on carry home?
 Okay, thank you.
 So what you saw there was the middle carry, then we switched on carry home to make the
 slow carry work all the time, so these bars are just pushing around all the drums.
 And you can see that all the 36 enigmas are just in step, they're all just turning and
 they are a resource.
 These are the very fast relays, the three banks, actually four, for the chains that
 do the detection here.
 This is the control logic, and then this is the 26 bit register that notes a stop and
 then allows the machine to slow down before it stops.
 Our favorite statistic is the sheer amount of wire in the thing.
 We've lost count, but it's somewhere between 10 and 12 miles of wire in each one of these.
 Then there was two main systems they were using, Enigma was their operational system,
 that was being used for specific operational communications, again, very short, maximum
 of 250 characters, instructions, orders for a Panzer Division to move from one location
 to another, orders for a submarine to attack a convoy, for aircraft during the Battle of
 Britain to attack specific targets.
 The Germans started to introduce, through probably 1941, a different system.
 The intercept service, which Britain had put into place to intercept these messages, started
 hearing traffic, which was clearly not enigma traffic, enigma traffic with Morse code, easily
 identifiable.
 People can be trained fairly simply to transcribe, to listen to Morse code and transcribe the
 letters.
 This was a totally different signal.
 It was not discernible, it was not transcribable.
 This was Hitler's communication channel to his army general, so very long-winded communications,
 top secret.
 This was an even more daunting task, arguably, than Enigma, because this encryption machine
 that was used with this system, there were various ones of them, Hitler referred to these
 as his Geheimschreiber's, his secret writers, several companies, Siemens, that exists today,
 were making a machine, Haglund, but there was also the Lorenz Company, and that was
 the primary machine, particularly Lorenz at SN42.
 That machine, and unlike Enigma that had three encryption wheels, had 12 encryption wheels.
 They approached the post office research lab at Dulles Hill in London, a young engineer
 called Tommy Flowers went into the project.
 He was in effect told, "Well, go ahead, if you can get approval."
 Flowers went back to the post office, got approval, put a small core team together,
 and in less than a year had a working prototype, quite a remarkable achievement.
 The first Colossus as this machine became known, the Mark I, had 1,500 valves or vacuum
 tubes in it.
 They brought it to Bletchley Park, it worked almost straight away.
 The people here were convinced, they asked for a more powerful computer, Flowers already
 had anticipated this, he already had it in production, 2,500 valves in an era when no
 machine that used valves had more than about 15, here was a machine with 2,500.
 Flowers was told that they needed the Mark II by June 1, 1944, because there was a certain
 date in the diary, June 5, 1944 was a scheduled day for Operation Overlord D-Day, it actually
 ended up being June 6 because of bad weather.
 Flowers delivered the first Mark II to Bletchley Park on June 1, they switched it on, it worked
 straight away.
 They immediately started decrypting messages between the German High Command, and much
 to their delight, they discovered that all of the subterfuge about the D-Day landings
 had worked.
 Hitler had believed that the main invasion was going to be at the Port of Calais, not
 at Normandy.
 That intelligence was fed back to General Eisenhower at Allied Supreme Command headquarters,
 and there is reasonable evidence to conclude that D-Day might well not have gone ahead
 on June 6, 1944 without the intelligence from Bletchley Park.
 This is the Colossus computer at Bletchley Park, now we're in Hut 4 at Bletchley Park,
 which was one of the first purpose-built computer centers, and some 10 of these machines were
 installed here starting in January 1944.
 Now, in the years previously, a new way of decrypting messages was discovered that was
 being used in Germany, and it was those high-level messages between Hitler and his generals,
 and they were encrypted on a machine called a Lorenz machine, and it used teleprinter
 codes to actually transmit those messages.
 Now, by '43, it was taking some six weeks to actually decode those messages, and decode
 those messages laboriously by hand.
 The problem with that is, within six weeks, the usefulness of the intelligence that you
 gain from those messages is obviously gone, so that process needed to be speeded up.
 Now, some techniques have been tried, some of the electronic techniques have been tried
 here at Bletchley Park, but this machine, when it was put into use in early '44, reduced
 that six-week period to decode the message down to six hours, and that's really just
 a phenomenal jump.
 The messages themselves were received at various intercept stations around the country and
 were punched onto paper tape.
 Now, there were two paper tapes on the machine here at the moment, one that we're running
 and one which is ready for the next run.
 Now, this tape, there are two here, if I take one, each row across the tape are punched
 by a pole, and each of those is an alphanumeric character.
 And that's the encrypted message that was received as being punched onto tape.
 Now, although Colossus has really all the elements of a modern electronic computer,
 it doesn't have the memory that we expect in a stored program computer.
 So what happens is that tape of that message, some 5,000 characters of that message is actually
 formed in a loop, and is read over here with a series of photoelectric sensors and lights,
 and each character is read, and the 5,000 characters a second are read.
 Now, each trunk of the machine we can hear there is another 5,000 characters being read
 into the machine.
 So we're reading that same 5,000 characters each time.
 This is the control panel of the Colossus computer.
 So it's this side of the machine that we would actually be, that the Wrens and the Wartime
 would actually be using.
 Now, I can set up the particular algorithm I want to test and routines I want to test
 using these control panels.
 And each clunk of the machine at the moment is another state where we're actually trying
 a new algorithm and repeating that algorithm on that repeating 5,000 characters.
 The results that the machine detects are presented here.
 Now, we're doing a statistical analysis of that encrypted tape.
 Now, the machine would run for some 6 hours.
 There are 2,500 valves in this machine.
 You can't see that many from the front, but once we go between the act of the machines,
 you get an idea of the scale.
 2,500 valves.
 Each valve has a heater, a hot wire heater in the center of the valve, and operates at
 about 2,300 volts DC.
 Now, 2,500 valves plus the power supplies generates over 8 kilowatts of electricity.
 And by this point, when we're standing in between the racks, you can feel the heat coming
 off of these racks.
 Colossus is a combination of electronics, and we can see the electronics here in these
 valve chassis members, and also electromechanical switch gear.
 So there are backs of relay panels here.
 These big single motion detectors are a sort of motorized switch that will actually spin
 around.
 There's banks of those in the machine.
 The technology is equipment that was well known for the British Post Office.
 This machine was designed by a chap called Tommy Flowers, and Tommy Flowers was an engineer
 at the research center in London for the British Post Office.
 Tommy was asked to look at the problem of how to automate this task, this manual task.
 And Tommy came up with the idea of using electronics to do this.
 At the time, the idea of using more than half a dozen valves in any circuit was just simply
 poo poo.
 Valves had a bad reputation.
 People had valves in their radios at home.
 They failed when they switched the radios on.
 So the idea of using two and a half thousand was just simply phenomenal.
 But Tommy understood that it's probably-- it's almost certainly the thermal shock that kills
 valves in the first place.
 So if you leave the machine on and don't subject it to that shock, you won't have a problem.
 Now all the 10 colossus machines here at Bletchley Park were left on permanently.
 The machines were operated by Rens in three shifts throughout the day.
 We have to be equally careful.
 This is obviously-- this is a replica of the machine itself.
 But the same problems apply.
 We need to be careful in bringing the supply voltages up gradually so we don't suffer from
 thermal shock and in the same way shutting the machine down.
 Tommy had the idea of generating the key, because it's a key that we're comparing with
 that encrypted tape, generating that key electronically.
 And these counters here, they're called the thyrotron rings, the thyrotron valves, actually
 hold that count.
 Now we describe colossus as not having a memory.
 We say not having a memory in the sense that modern computers have a memory that's common
 for data and for programs.
 Well, the program here is set on those control panels at the front.
 And that's switch and plug programmed, much like, say, its contemporary ENAG machine.
 But these machines, these valves at the back, do act as a store in the sense of counters.
 And they're actually counting the score that we're actually getting, each passed through
 the algorithm.
 We can see at the back here, well, certainly some of the modern technology, I suspect the
 wartime guys that were building and debugging these machines, would have given anything
 for a reliable oscilloscope and let alone a logic analyzer.
 But if I look into the machine down here, back, you can see the projected image that's
 coming off the tape, and that's shining onto five photosensitive valves.
 And it's those valves that are actually reading the 5,000 characters every second.
 And paper tape was used well into the 1960s and '70s.
 At this speed, it was simply phenomenal, and hadn't really been thought of before.
 And our original museum director, Tony Versailles, wanted to rebuild the Colossus and build a
 replica of the Colossus machine, and this was some 20 years ago.
 There's very little information out there.
 There are a few pictures that were kept, possibly illegally, a few scraps of circuit diagrams,
 and just the memories of some of the original pioneers who worked on the machine.
 And when Tony started the plant, Tommy Flowers was still alive and remembered and was able
 to draw circuits, because finally the parts as well.
 But the important thing is the machine was designed by a post office engineer at the
 time, an engineer that was used to designing systems for telephone switching.
 So a lot of the components here, everything from the relay banks to the switches to the
 power supplies, were common to British post offices in the pre-war period.
 So when Tony then wants to find the components to rebuild the replica, he's lucky in the
 sense that the last of those exchanges are being decommissioned from post offices around
 the country.
 Tony was therefore able to really sort of back up a pickup truck at the back of the
 exchange and take away all of those components and dismantle all of those components.
 And they were absolutely perfect and it was just that time he really couldn't have been
 better.
 So Alan Turing actually left Bletchley Park after about three and a half years.
 His involvement really finished, he went to the United States, Turing was not actually
 involved in the development of Colossus.
 Some of the statistical work that he did was used by the people, predominantly Bill Tut,
 who's the guy that actually reconstructed the Lorenz machine, quite remarkably a remarkable
 feat, indeed.
 Turing got involved in things like speech scrambling systems and went to the United
 States and was involved in other projects, so he wasn't really involved in Colossus.
 At the end of the war, Turing went to work for the National Physics Laboratory, again
 pursuing these sort of ideas, and then of course he ended up at the University of Manchester,
 where Max Newman, who had run the department where the Colossus computers had been located
 at Bletchley Park, also ended up as the head of mathematics and obviously then at that
 point Turing became involved in the very early computer developments in Britain.
 Gordon Welchman immigrated to the United States at the end of the war, in 1948 he immigrated
 to the United States and became involved in many of the early American computing developments,
 project World Wind, Welchman worked at MIT, taught the first course in computing science
 at MIT.
 So Turing then was involved in things like Manchester Baby and the Franti Mark I and
 the early computing developments, I guess this is well known of course, Turing tragically
 committed suicide in 1954.
 [Music]
