 So I hope you enjoyed that. Again, I tried to showcase the juxtaposition of the mechanical
 computers moving to the electronic computers and how it was a collective effort by many
 different people. And so one of the things that happened sort of after this is after
 the war, they didn't need Bletchley Park anymore. So they shut the Bletchley Park down.
 And all these people who had worked on all these things and built all these things went
 to various academic places like MIT, Manchester, Harvard. And what happened was is what they
 had done was a secret and they could say nothing about it. But they had realized and they couldn't
 forget that electronics could do computation. And electronics could do computation far more
 rapidly than anything we've ever imagined before. And so a series of computers came
 up really fast after the war. They kind of, you know, relaxed, the war is over, we feel
 good. But let's start thinking about what we would build if we were going to do computations
 like weather or other kinds of cool computations instead of just wartime computations. And
 so these next generation of computers that are often thought of as the first computers
 in the world, which are really kind of like the follow on computers to the computers built
 at Bletchley Park. And so the immediate post-war period in the 1940s took the US and UK code
 breaking. There were similar things in the United States as well. And I'm sure elsewhere
 where that pushed the envelope of computation. But the folks that had built all these things
 for wartime purposes switched and moved into academic and peacetime purposes. And so they
 built, I mean, if you think about it, they had less pressure, but they already know it's
 feasible and they could kind of sit back and relax and be like, OK, that would be a little
 better. We kind of compromised there. So they built some really elegant computers. And,
 you know, they can all sort of fight over who's the first. But ultimately they all pretty
 much came out very quickly one after another because the idea had escaped. And so this
 is the beginning of sort of electronic computation, right? The fact that electricity can be used
 to represent data and that can be used to change data very rapidly as compared to other
 things that used physical storage for computer information. So this was a great time. Electronic
 computation from the specialized to the general purpose. And these people really built some
 exciting computers, many of the architectures of which are kind of still sort of with us.
 A lot of the architectures were innovative. The innovative architectures that we still
 used today were conceived and imagined there.
