 [ Music ]
 >> That students get a better understanding of something if they know the history,
 know where it's come from.
 That's my view.
 So when I go to class, when I go to the interface design class, for instance,
 I can take them down to the museum and show them what an early interface was.
 We talk about interface design and they think of their handheld computer,
 their laptop, their desktop, and they look at the screen and they think that's an interface.
 Sure it is, but how did we get there?
 What was the early interface of computers?
 And I take them down to the Ferranti series and they say, well,
 what's the interface here with a computer?
 So it's giving them the idea of what an interface is by taking them back to something
 that looks very primitive and then we look at the evolution of interfaces over time.
 We look at the different applications.
 You know, we go back and look at PhysiCalc and WordStar and things like that
 and sort of progress through the different versions of these different products.
 You actually have like running PhysiCalc?
 No, no, we don't.
 No, no, I've sourced it from the web.
 But I think it just broadens their outlook on IT
 and I think it's a danger with computing students that they can become very focused on the latest
 and quickly discard the technology they're using when the next one comes along and forget about it.
 Even before we had the museum, we were lucky. We had here SIRAC.
 I've mentioned SIRAC to you, yeah, the world's number four digital stored program computer.
 It's left over, used till about '65, so about '72 or so.
 It arrived on campus just for storage purposes, but we put it in a display area.
 When I first arrived with my teaching here in about '88 to teach,
 I would always take my introduction to computer architecture students past.
 It had so much to tell students about the origin of operating systems,
 the primary function of operating systems to allocate resources and the efficiency of use of resources.
 With the programming students, I can show them things like punch cards and things like this,
 how do we get information into the computers and show them things like that.
 It might be part of one class in a semester that I use the museum in particular for my classes,
 and others use it too in similar ways, but we do have school children coming on visits,
 and then we have about an hour tour and we take them through the museum,
 starting with the calculating machines, and we talk about what do people do before computers,
 and I've got things like this, what is a computer, where do we get the name of computing from,
 and I've got this picture of women using slide rules in 1948, I think it was,
 this is in America, doing their calculations, and the idea that the first computers were people,
 and often they were women, so that's kind of an interesting bit of social history there.
 So trying to connect the computers and state of the technology to what was happening in society at the time.
 The physical artefacts are very important to that.
 That idea of the physical, we still carry forward even today,
 as we're looking to see what we can do with the full museum that we've created now.
 We're toyed with ideas of a web-based series of exhibitions, photographing all of the artefacts,
 making sure that people can sort of browse through and move through halls.
 We feel that even with that web-based teaching methods, we would still like to have physical artefacts.
 We're toyed with a box of artefacts that we would send out to schools that are working on our program,
 and they do an educational program.
 So the physical hands-on is a very important thing.
 Museum curators understand it, people who aren't museum curators tend not to.
 We had a staff member in our school.
 When we started the museum, I was talking to her and said, "Oh, we will have slide wheels in there."
 Now she had done an honours degree in maths, and she had not heard, not that she hadn't seen a slide wheel,
 she didn't even know what one was.
 And that to me was amazing because when I went to uni, everyone carried a slide wheel.
 This is my slide wheel from my university days.
 We all had these as science students, engineering students, we all had these tools.
 And she was probably ten years younger than me and suddenly had no idea what I was even talking about,
 hadn't heard the word.
 So I think that really made me realise that history is just so quickly forgotten,
 and that there's a danger that we forget about these things,
 and if we don't have them around for people to see, they forget about the history of the technology that they're using.
 And I think that's a real danger.
 [music]
 [music]
 [music]
 [music]
 [music]
