 In the post-war period in the 1950s, this is a bit of an aside, there was a realization
 by the, certainly the federal government in the United States, that academics were kind
 of useful, right? I mean, the people that really had won the war for them were academics.
 Not just computer people, but also people that built designed airplanes and radar and
 things like that. And so there's a sense that the safest country was the country that
 had the smartest people. And in many ways, the entire US educational system was built
 to find really bright scientists and educate them very effectively. And so there was a
 real boom in building science departments, National Science Foundation was created right
 after the war. And so the United States and other governments really greatly invested
 in research. And there's this movie, Beautiful Mind, and I've got the URL there at the bottom.
 It's not required, but I love the movie. And it gives you a sense, in particular the scene
 that I'm pointing to, gives you a sense of how mathematicians were in many ways treated
 like celebrities. So I'll pause just for a minute in case you want to pause this video
 and then go take a look at the John Nash video.
 So of course, John Nash was a real person. He received his PhD in mathematics at Princeton
 at 22 years old. He was a prodigy. He was on the mathematics faculty at MIT in 1951
 through 1958. And he had adult onset schizophrenia right before he was 30 years old. And it was
 quite a severe case. And he spent a number of years in sort of mental institutions, homeless,
 et cetera. But in his work in Princeton, in an area of economics called game theory, he
 did something that was quite innovative. And it really revolutionized in many ways our
 understanding of economics. And he got his schizophrenia under control in the mid '90s.
 And he was awarded the Nobel Prize for economics in 1994. And so this is just kind of this
 moment where all this stuff was blossoming in the '40s and the '50s.
 Now in the 1960s, we started seeing a different way of computing. This was moving from the
 research into the mathematics of building computers to the applications of the computers.
 And we needed to have connectivity because you would build a computer and in 1955, there
 might be one computer available to a university researcher in the entire state. And so you
 had to connect them together. And so we would often end up with these things we called terminals
 in our office. And they would use these dial up modems. And they would connect perhaps
 for a local call to a local computer or even a long distance call, a very expensive long
 distance call to a remote computer. But these computers were so central and so precious
 that we didn't care about the cost of phones. And we couldn't share them. I mean, everybody
 didn't have a computer the way they do today. And so there was a couple of different models.
 One is that you had people doing their work connecting to computers over these modems.
 And then more rarely, you had computer to computer connections using what are called
 lease lines. These lease lines were very expensive. They were kind of like making a long distance
 phone call 24 hours a day, seven days a week. They were rarely used in academic situations
 because they were so expensive. It was more common for a bank to use them to say move
 all their data from their branch locations to the central locations once a day. They
 were generally slow and very expensive. And they were justifiable in certain situations.
 And so that's kind of how our world was. We had something on our desk. And then we used
 that to connect through the phone lines to a central computer that was shared with many
 different people. We called it time sharing. And so-- oops. So this next video that I want
 to show you, just the first part of it, you don't have to watch the whole thing, is kind
 of in the '60s and '70s when I became involved in computing, this was kind of the way that
 we perceived our computers. We would dial them up. And they made these clunking noises
 that this teletype that you're going to see in this video is a World War II artifact basically.
 And my first programming, personally, was on this kind of a computer, making this exact
 noise that you're going to hear in this video. And I think that the key to emphasize here
 is that it's kind of fun to look back at this old guy with his horny rim glasses. But we
 really were enjoying ourselves. And you think, well, I got this fancy cell phone and it does
 all these wonderful things. And I place Angry Birds on it. And weren't these people not
 having fun? And the answer is we were having a great time. We were connecting, communicating,
 calculating, computing, doing all these wonderful things. We just were doing it sort of more
 slowly with simpler equipment. But even from the beginning in the '60s and the '70s, people
 talking to people were an important part of the use of this technology. So take a quick
 look at this video, and then come on back.
 I'm going to show you the use of the Michigan Terminal System, a large computing system
 at the University of Michigan Computing Center, using the IBM Model 36067. We will be using
 a standard teletype, and we will be dialing in through the ordinary University Centrix
 telephone system. This system can be used by a telephone system anywhere in the world,
 as long as one can dial directly into the computer. These teletypes are not wired in,
 but use the ordinary telephone system. We start by pushing the originate button, which
 turns on the teletype. Then we will dial using the regular telephone dial here. Now, there
 is a handset, which is available with every teletype system. You can dial this number,
 if you like, with the handset. Either one works. But as soon as you are connected to
 the computer, do not use the handset for any purpose at all. Now I'll push the originate
 button. I can control the speaker volume with this little knob, and so you can hear it.
 Now I will dial the number, 763-0300, or in the Centrix system, just 30300. And now the
 computer is coming in. I will turn the volume down. The response from the computer is the
 identification of the system. The "who are you?" is the standard teletype communication
 identification. And the teletype itself answers with its own built-in code number. In this
 case, the teletype at the TV center. Now I must sign on to the computer and identify
 myself. The number sign at the beginning of the line is the indication that the Michigan
 terminal system is waiting for me to communicate something to it. The first thing I must do
 is issue the sign-on command. All commands in the system start with a dollar sign. Now
 the keyboard on the teletype is very much like the keyboard of a typewriter, including
 a shift key for the characters on the top of the key. We do not have upper and lower
 case letters, however, so the shift key is only used to get an additional set of characters.
 And in this case, the dollar sign is a character above the number 4. Now I will use the word
 sign-on, which is the official command, S-I-G-N-O-N. There must be a space, at least one, after
 every command. And now I will give my own personal computing center number, which happens
 to be W010. Each user of this system is issued a computing center identification number through
 his instructor if he's a student or through the department for faculty. Now this line
 has been typed. It is being held by the computer, but I can, if I see any errors in it, do some
 editing and correcting. We'll see that later. I am satisfied with this line, and now I will
 give the end-of-line character, which must be given after every line, and I will remind
 you each time that I'm doing it for a while. The character for ending a line uses the control
 key on the keyboard, which is a special key which indicates that I want to use even additional
 characters besides those that are added by the use of the shift key. I hold the control
 key down, and while I hold it down, I can hit one of a number of other keys. And in
 this case, I will use the control with the letter Q. It's possible to use the letter S also,
 but that's right next to another key which disconnects the teletype, so I recommend using
 Q. I will use control and Q to terminate the line. And now I'm asked to give my private
 password. I'll give an incorrect password, just some nonsense characters, and of course,
 end-of-line because I must indicate that I'm satisfied with that. I'm prompted that I better
 give another password, and now since I intend to give the correct password, I will turn
 off the printing so that no one can see what mine is. To turn off printing, we use this
 switch which is labeled HDX and FDX for half-duplex and full-duplex. We normally operate the teletype
 in half-duplex mode. If I push it to full-duplex, printing is suppressed. And now I will give
 my correct password, push to half-duplex again, and end-of-line character, control Q, and
 it is accepted by the system, and I am now signed on. The information that's coming out
 here is time and date of the previous sign-on.
