 Hello and welcome back. I just wanted to give you sort of a sense of the actual physical
 experience of connecting and communicating and computing in the 60s and the 70s. The
 70s was when I got my start and the lucky people got to use Teletype like was being
 used in that video and other people used punch cards. You also heard the squealing sound
 of the data being converted into sound and back and forth. The key goal was there would
 be, if you were lucky, one computer within a 20-mile radius of where you were sitting
 so you could use a local phone call and you could be on all day and do things all day
 long. That was really exciting and a lot of fun. This was sort of a common, if you were
 sort of, today you have a $2,000 laptop, the fancy people had these Teletypes right in
 their office because then they could conveniently sort of do computation and not have to go
 somewhere to do that computation. So that's pretty exciting. So dial-up was kind of like
 the way the campus operated. But you could also do data transfer with leased lines. The
 typical thing about leased lines is that the phone company, if it's going between two cities,
 digs a hole and puts a cable in and has some number of copper wires in between those cities
 - this is back then, of course it's fiber optic now - but back then it was copper and
 every time you would make a call between those two cities it would have to find a free piece
 of wire and connect it up so that your call, the audio of your call would go through that
 wire. And if you wanted to, you could pay them to lease one of those pieces of wire.
 It meant that people couldn't use that wire for phone calls. You would sort of take it
 out of service and if they had 500 wires between two cities and you leased one of them then
 they had 499 wires. And so it was rather expensive. And really, very importantly, the cost was
 based on distance. A mile versus five miles versus 20 miles versus 100 miles, the cost
 would kind of go up linear based on distance. And so that's a key thing that distance is
 important in these very limited resource copper wires where you had to dedicate a wire either
 to a phone call or to data. And so we ended up evolving in the academic world what we
 called stored and forward networking with the sole purpose of compromising everything
 so that we would keep our cost that we paid for our phone lines to a minimum. We wanted
 to communicate in academia with people all around the country and all around the world
 so we had to keep the cost low. And so we would lease a leased line, you know, so here
 would be us sitting with terminals in our offices and we would use dial up to get connected
 and so this might be a few miles, like one to two miles, one to two kilometers. And that's
 what you had to do. You had to live near a computer or have an office near a computer
 and then you would use the local telephone network to dial and to do your work. And then
 there would be one connection out the back of that computer to another computer that
 would also have users on it and then other computers with users on it, other computers
 with users on it. So this might, for example, be Michigan. This might be Stanford. Stanford
 would have a computer, Michigan would have a computer. The Stanford people would be connected
 to the Stanford computer. Stanford would have one little connection out its back end and
 to the rest of the world. So you, sitting here, want to talk to somebody sitting here.
 So this is how it worked. You were sort of always connected. So your data would be inside,
 you know, you type an email into the computer and then you'd say send that out to my colleague
 at Stanford. And so the problem is, is everyone else was sending. And so let's say, for example,
 that somebody sent a pretty big thing. Big purple circle is what they're sending. And
 then somebody next to you in the office down sends a kind of medium sized orange circle
 and they're sitting there being stored in the local computer and then you finally finish
 typing your email messages and it's kind of a small green circle. And now the problem
 is is you're in a line. The way this worked is the software would keep a queue or a line
 of those who were going to use the line and then it would sort of start streaming this
 stuff out. And once it started, it just kept doing the same file over and over and over.
 Now if it died, it would just start from the beginning again. And so it takes some time
 for that thing to move across the network. And then when it would move across the network,
 the next message in line would start to be sent across the network and it would use that
 link. Come on, finish up. There we go. Okay. It takes a while for these things to move
 across the link. And then finally, and this could be 10 minutes later, finally it was
 your turn and your stuff would work its way through the network and get to the next computer.
 The problem is is once it's in that computer, you face the same problem because if all these
 messages are going from Michigan, I forgot to hit the button thing, from Michigan to Stanford
 and they're all on the way, they got to go through all these links because there wasn't
 a direct connection because the direct connection to Stanford would be very expensive. And so
 we find ourselves in a situation where you're stored, you sat on these computers and if
 there was an outage of a network or say this one, this might be ours. You might be sitting
 on this computer for hours on their disk drive, right? Not even in their memory. You'd be
 sitting on their disk drive for an hour and then finally this would come back or maybe
 this computer was down. They'd come back up and then the data would start flowing again.
 So it was haphazard. I keep telling you, it was awesome. It was just slow. It was awesome
 but slow. So don't feel sorry for us. We loved it. We enjoyed it. It was great talking to
 colleagues all over the world. So we ended up with a network architecture that encouraged
 more hops, which means it encouraged more latency and encouraged the likelihood of getting
 stuck behind something large as it worked its way through the network. So for example,
 we were going to send a message from East Lansing to say the East Coast somewhere and
 we would have two connections maybe. We would have a connection between Michigan State University
 and East Lansing and Ann Arbor and then the data would get stored and forward in Ann Arbor
 and then it would get further sent to Cleveland. And if you think about it, the wire between
 Ann Arbor and Cleveland goes like this. They probably buried wires under the ground. And
 if we could actually convince Toledo, the cost of the big wire versus the cost of the
 two shorter wires, the cost of the two shorter wires is almost exactly the cost of the big
 wire because it's not really a big wire. And so if we can convince Toledo to join our little
 club, then we don't increase the cost of our communications because it's about the same.
 The wire length is about the same, but we've got one more school for the same cost. And
 if you keep doing that and you keep saying, "Oh, well, let's put a school here and put
 a school here and put a school here in the middle of a lake and put a school here in
 the middle of a forest," the economics said that you could connect more schools with effectively
 fixed cost by shortening the distance every time you made a connection. And sometimes
 they would sort of make two connections. But the way it often worked was from the perspective
 of this whole thing is the data would sort of tend to go up to some central location
 and then kind of fan back out from the central location. And so there wasn't a lot of redundant
 links in this whole situation. So we find ourselves in a situation where we can save
 more money, saving money by just simply adding hops. So in this environment, we had a lot
 of email. Back in those days, we didn't have a lot of images. Computers, you know, barely
 could do upper and lower case sometimes. It was impressive when we finally got to upper
 lower case, let alone images. And so for the longest time, everything we did was very text
 oriented. Sometimes we would send small files like programs to each other, but it was either
 text. And these days, those are tiny. It's almost like SMS, right? It's almost like the
 size of an SMS message was the size of a typical mail message back in those days. Images, we
 didn't have computers that could even display them, and so it hardly mattered. So you focus
 your life on this one computer within a 20-mile radius, and it had this connection to like
 a snake-like connection that sort of went over hill and dale and to somewhere, and then
 it finally got to Stanford or wherever your mail had to go. But again, it was awesome
 to be able to sit at a keyboard and talk to people all over the world, even though it
 took four hours. We didn't send as much email back then. And a number of networks came up.
 One of them that became sort of pretty widely used was a thing called Bitnet, and it was
 where everything kind of came back to. Princeton was one of the main hubs of Bitnet, and it
 worked really well. And there was a way to say, "Oh, I need one more school," and we'd
 go find the ones that are closest, and we'd make the connection. And so that's pretty
 much how the average academic saw networking, one on-campus computer and sort of this weird,
 slow, soaring-forward networking that worked well enough. But during that exact same time,
 from the 1960s to the 1980s, the U.S. Department of Defense was investing in a research network
 called ARPANET.
