 From the 1960s to the 1980s, the U.S. Department of Defense was investing in a research network
 called ARPANET, and ARPANET was funded by the military ARPA Defense Advanced Research
 Projects Agency, and we'll meet, later in the lecture, we'll meet, Vint Cerf will tell
 the story much better than I can tell, but I'll just tell you a short version right now.
 A lot of people wonder why the Department of Defense started this project, and a lot
 of people say, "Oh, it's because of the fear of nuclear war," and the project was
 very long, and there were various motivations throughout the various phases of the effort,
 but based on what I've been told and what I've read, I think it's safe to say that
 the primary motivation was to improve the use of their computing equipment that they
 were used for military purposes, make it easier to access them, make it so people didn't
 have to travel as much, make it so that people could work from their office on many different
 computers, and also so that people could actually talk more effectively, so they could send
 email real fast, so that the email would move faster for military people.
 So the first thing is really kind of an end user focus to make them more useful to people
 and get people working together more effectively.
 That was the first kind of heavy motivation.
 The second motivation actually had to do with reliability and redundancy and resistance
 to partial failure, and that really wasn't so much about nuclear attack.
 That was more about battlefield attack, so the notion that once you start having all
 these links and you make them wireless and you put them in trailers on a battlefield
 and you got a few hundred miles and the data's moving back and forth, then we have to worry
 about in a battlefield situation, one of those trailers might get hit and how would you keep
 the network running if one of those trailers got hit.
 So the notion that we have sort of a whole nation and we are worried about communications,
 I'm sure there was some worry about that, but it wasn't really the main reason.
 I mean, the exciting thing to me is the main reason was a very people-centered reason of
 people working more effectively.
 But this was a rather exclusive club, rather exclusive network, because it was only for
 the people who were either military or funded to build it.
 So in 1969, there were four hosts on it.
 Again, that's research.
 And these were lease lines, the same ones we were all using to do our email, and they
 were expensive, very expensive.
 But because it was a large grant, they just paid it because the research was not about
 the money.
 The research was, if you had these connections, what would be the best way to use them, and
 how to deal with redundancies, and how to deal with multiple paths to the same place.
 All that stuff is interesting research questions that computer scientists spent many years
 conceiving of.
 And so by 1972, looks like we got about 20.
 We got a couple of cross-country links and multiple connections, and this looks like
 a great test bed to see, you know, so all of a sudden this part goes down, how quickly
 can we reroute around the outage.
 And literally these things these days reroute around outages in far less than a second.
 And so that's really impressive.
 Our current internet owes its history to the research that was done in the 1960s and 1970s.
 But what was fundamentally different between the store and forward networks of Bitnet and
 this ARPANET research network was the notion of packet switching.
 So it's a real simple concept.
 It just takes a little more complex software to solve.
 The store and forward network would start sending data across the link, and then keep
 sending it until it was done.
 That seemed to be very efficient.
 You didn't want to like, you wanted to use it as fast as you can, and then put in the
 next one out, put the next one out, put the next one out.
 It was really simple and it dealt with outages in a simple manner by storing them all locally
 on the disk.
 But what if instead you made it so you broke every message, let me see if I can even draw
 this.
 I should probably make a slide about this.
 So if there's a network here and here's my computer and it's got a network connection,
 it's got one really big message broken into pieces, many pieces, and it sends the pieces
 one at a time.
 If you show up with a really short message with only three pieces, all you have to do
 is wait for one piece to go and then your piece goes in.
 And then you share for a while, right?
 You share for a while and then you have made it through because you only have three packets.
 This has like 1,000 packets.
 And then once your message is through, they resume sending this data in order.
 And so you were able to sneak and bypass the traffic jam that was this large amount of
 data.
 And so that's the idea of packets.
 And packets are these chunks to say what we're going to send is a piece.
 And then at the end of that, we're going to maybe send a piece of a different message.
 It was allowing simultaneously multiple message to be in flight at the same time.
 That's packet switching.
 And what happened then is we also ended up with these special purpose computers called
 routers.
 They're still computers, but they weren't doing storing in the same way.
 They were just forwarding.
 They weren't storing forward.
 They were merely forwarding.
 So we'll get back to that in a second.
 So my favorite analogy to talk about how packets work is postcards.
 So let's say that I want to send a 30-character message to my friend Daphne at Stanford.
 But all I have is 10-character postcards.
 So off I go.
 I break my message into three bits of 10 characters.
 I write each piece on a different postcard.
 I address with a from and a to address from Chuck to Daphne.
 And then I give a sequence number so that when she gets the postcards, she knows what
 order to put them back together.
 So I have to label each of these.
 And these are fixed width and fixed length.
 It's like a packet.
 I'm breaking a long message that might be very long into nothing so that each piece
 is a certain size so that we can all share it.
 And so then what I do is I send these, I put them all in my mailbox, and then I wait.
 And this magical thing called the post office picks them up, puts them in buildings.
 We'll sort them, they end up on trucks, they end up on planes, on trains, on donkeys by
 hand.
 And each of my postcards might take a different route.
 I mean, one of my postcards goes from Michigan to Chicago to Kansas City to San Francisco.
 Another of my postcards goes from Michigan to Chicago to Dallas to Denver to Kansas City
 to San Francisco.
 And my third postcard goes really crazy.
 It goes to Cleveland, and it goes to Atlanta, then it goes to Washington, DC, and then it
 goes to Chicago, and then it goes to Kansas City, and then it makes it to San Francisco.
 Now the fact that they took different paths and they might not even arrive in order, some
 might get past each other, they might get stuck somewhere, it doesn't matter because
 each one of these has been labeled both with the from and the to destination.
 So each of these intermediate locations doesn't have to get it to the final destination, they
 just have to get it closer.
 They make choices, and even if they make the wrong choice, it can be sort of dealt with
 one way or the other.
 So this is some big mystery.
 It's called the post office.
 It just takes these little cards with labels and moves them.
 It doesn't know if that's a YouTube video or if it's an email.
 It doesn't really care.
 It just has these little chunks to move around that have from and to addresses.
 I mean, that's the essence of the network, the internet, the cloud.
 That's why we draw this picture.
 You'll see like, "Ooh, it's a cloud."
 And that's because it's, don't worry about what's inside here.
 It's all super mysterious, and don't worry about it.
 It just comes out.
 So after all that happens, Daphne, who happens to have the exact same mailbox as I do, it's
 kind of rare.
 We both have a mailbox that's Copyright Creative Commons.
 That's what's cool about this mailbox.
 At some point later, these things start appearing.
 She goes like, "Whoa, it looks like Chuck is sending me a note."
 But because of his limitation of postcards, he's only sent me one.
 Now I know who it's from and I know who it's to, and I know that's the first of some number
 of messages.
 And then the next day, out comes another one, because that was the one that sort of went
 the more southerly route.
 And she goes, "Well, I'm missing something.
 I'll just sit and wait and see what happens."
 And then finally, many, many days later, the one that took the circuitous, most circuitous,
 most roundabout route comes.
 And now Daphne can reassemble the messages, because she has the sequences.
 So she simply puts them back together.
 One, two, three, boom.
 So she puts them back together.
 She has it.
 She sort of throws the postcards away and she has the ultimate final message.
 That's packets.
 Packets are breaking a big message into small parts, labeling each one of them individually,
 and then throwing them into the shared network.
 And so this is what it looks like.
 The post office in this is called a gateway.
 Okay, come on.
 Gateway.
 So that's a gateway.
 So here's Michigan, here's Stanford.
 Stanford has a gateway too.
 That's like their post office.
 In the middle is the post office box.
 And the post office box basically, the post office has intermediate locations and it has
 trucks and locations.
 These are links and routers.
 And messages can take different paths, right?
 And then they arrive and they're reassembled.
 And we have like the ability to hook from home and stuff like that.
 So there's a local area network, LAN, LAN.
 And then there's this sort of like internet, the network of networks.
 It's like the post office.
 And it still breaks things into packets.
 They still come out as packets.
 And then Daphne has to reassemble them on her computer to create the message.
 So the research network, ARPANET, solved a lot of engineering problems.
