 There was this whole world of coders and hardware guys in the '60s, and I thought to myself,
 I bet there's a really interesting story here.
 So my editor at Simon & Schuster was totally 100% behind it.
 The working title was really bad.
 It was called Building Cyberspace, so we knew we needed a new title.
 And Matt, my late husband, didn't come in on the project.
 He was actually a better writer than I am and a wonderful, just had an absolutely incredible
 mind and could grasp anything.
 And he didn't come in on the project until about maybe a year into it.
 When I was getting overwhelmed, I had this new baby, and I was working at Newsweek, and
 I realized that there was just more to the story than I could do myself, it would have
 taken me like double the time.
 So that's when he came in on the project, and I found, indeed, that there was this incredible
 untold story of not so much the Internet, so we have to keep it really clear, the ARPANET
 and how that started, and in fact, Matt's the one who wrote the chapter, The Fastest
 Million Dollars, which is about how it got funded at IPTO, the Information Processing
 Techniques Office at what was then DARPA and then became ARPANET, DARPA and then ARPA again.
 These people were all, as I had hoped, incredibly interesting, really smart, and had this new
 idea for how computers could talk to each other.
 One of the most amazing things was visiting Larry Roberts, who was running IPTO at the
 time that this whole thing was drawn out.
 We were at his house in Woodside, and we went out into the garage.
 This is how un-researched this topic was, because, you know, who'd have thunk, right?
 And we go out into his garage, and there are all these boxes of old, mildewy papers, and
 he starts pulling them out, and there are old letters between him and people at MIT,
 and then he pulls out this amazing set of sketches of him.
 It's like, remember when Trudeau Doonesbury did Inside Reagan's Brain?
 This was like inside Larry Roberts' brain.
 He was just sketching out all the possible configurations of what this network could
 look like.
 I've got these pictures in the book, which you can show, but here, you know, these are
 all his very early diagrams, just sort of popping out of his head.
 This is the early notes on the ARPANET, and I just loved finding all this incredible primary
 source material, and I felt like I should have been paying somebody to be able to do
 this rather than…
 Right, because it's just in a garage that millions of people drive by, right, and it's
 all of a sudden this important artifact of what we're living right now.
 Right, and we were able to sort of, you know, capture it, and Bolt, Baranek, and Newman
 was a big force behind the book.
 The book was in part their idea, and so these guys, because what we tend to forget is that
 at BBN, they built the first imp and the interface message processor.
 In fact, there's a very funny story in the book where Ted Kennedy, you know, Senator
 from Massachusetts, sends a letter to BBN congratulating them on getting the contract
 for the interfaith message processor.
 I know.
 So, a completely uncharted territory, and they had to build this piece of hardware,
 which they did, and program it, which they did a whole new thing, and it was…
 So I spent a lot of time with the folks at BBN, got to know them well, and that group,
 they were completely on school in talking to, you know, reporters or a book researcher,
 and there was this one guy, Ray Tomlinson, everybody said, "Oh, you should go talk
 to Ray because he came up with the @ sign."
 I said, "Oh, really?
 Okay," and so, you know, there's this wonderful, really quiet guy, Ray Tomlinson,
 sitting in his office, and I knocked on his door, I said, "I understand you came up
 with the @ sign."
 He goes, "Oh, yeah, yeah," and then he explains to me, you know, how it is that he
 did this, and then, you know, and now it's a huge legend that Ray Tomlinson did this,
 and the software guys, really…
 So, I have this image of you sort of just driving and driving and going and going back
 and forth.
 I mean, how long was the research?
 How long did you research this?
 Was this like…
 I think, yeah, the research took a couple of years, and it wasn't so much driving.
 The hacker book was like driving all over, all over the place, because that was three
 different stories of three different hackers.
 This was more, in fact, email between the hacker book and this book and Wizards, so
 1988, and like when I started this book, 1993, email had come, it was much more popular,
 so there were a lot of…we did a lot of emailing back and forth.
 I spent a lot of time…I did go from…I was living in Austin at the time.
 I did go from Austin to Boston a lot, and I spent a lot of time, actually, I did fly
 to L.A. and spent a lot of time with John Postel, who came up with the domain name system,
 and he died in '90…I want to say '98, '99, and that was shocking.
 I spent a lot of time with him.
 Tell me about…tell me about John.
 Well, John…so anyone who's ever seen a picture of John, maybe you have one you can
 dig up, this very long, kind of Santa Claus-like beard, and what's amazing is I spent a lot
 of time at his house.
 He lived in a teeny, tiny little house in the L.A. area with his girlfriend, this very
 nice woman named Susan, and on the refrigerator, there were all these family photos, and they
 all…they were all like these people with long beards, long white beards, what an interesting
 family, and he drove, I think, this kind of beat-up Volvo or something like that, something
 completely unpretentious, and lived so unpretentiously, and had all his files right in his study in
 this little house, all this history, and also at ISI, where he worked in Marina del Rey,
 and we spent hours and hours and hours together, first in Boston, where we were both at an
 anniversary party of the ARPANET, and we spent a lot of time together, and I thought, you
 know, this guy is key, and he was so quiet that sort of getting him to open up really
 meant spending a lot of time with him, and he was…oh, and we met at one of the very
 first INAC conferences in 1995 in Hawaii and spent a lot of time there, and he just was
 so patiently trying to explain to me things, but I'll never forget this one thing that
 happened with him in Hawaii at the INAC conference, it's the Internet Society Conference, one
 of the very early ones, and I just was asking him some questions, and he goes…he looked
 completely disturbed and distracted, and he said, "No, no, there's someone over across
 the room I have to talk to," and it was someone from a very small country, sort of
 wanting to talk to John about their domain, the country's domain name, or something,
 but to John, it was far more important that he deal with this person's problem than cement
 his place in history, in this ARPANET history.
 In fact, when I was working on the book, I sent him an email, I'll never forget this,
 I think I don't have the email anymore, and I said, "Just out of curiosity, why haven't
 you ever wanted to get rich," because that's when people were starting to get rich, so
 this was in '95, and he said, "It's just not what this is about," isn't that a wonderful
 thing?
 It is.
 Yeah, and that's who John was.
 One of the things that I've been curious about is how this got by AT&T, how this made
 it past AT&T.
 I know, talk about No Vision, well, Paul Barron, he couldn't convince AT&T to build the very
 marvelous network that he designed, and then these other guys, the next guys, the next
 crew that came in, and they were very, very, think about it back then, they had a monopoly,
 what did they really care?
 They had the Bell Research Labs, and it was a not-invented-here kind of syndrome, and
 they didn't see it, I mean, talk about No Vision, they simply didn't see it, but I think
 the fact, the not-invented-here part of it was like, "What would we possibly need this
 for?"
 They were in a context.
 They were in their own context, yeah, but thank goodness, I mean, thank goodness they
 didn't get their hands on this thing, the same with IBM, sorry, you know, just, we didn't
 want corporate America, or DEC for that matter, the original hardware was based on a Honeywell
 machine, and thank goodness Honeywell doesn't exist anymore.
 It sounds terrible that I'm saying this, but it's, but it was all kind of happy, accidental
 sort of coincidences.
 I think Al Gore is- Oh, totally underestimated and underappreciated, is that what you were
 going to say?
 Yeah.
 Oh, yeah.
 I mean, why mock him?
 Every time, every time I tell people I wrote a history of the origins of the internet,
 people say very mockingly, "Oh, did Al Gore invent it?"
 And I won't play into that.
 He played a huge role in terms of policy and direction.
 And when Clinton was running for president, you know, they were out there with this very
 important technology white paper that, I mean, you can't do things like this unless you have
 the support that people like Al Gore provided.
