 By the end of the 1970s, there was quite a sophisticated network. Like I said, they'd
 rewritten it four times. It had gotten to be very sophisticated. There'd been good investment.
 They had been careful about understanding how to improve it each time they rebuilt it.
 And so it was a really fine working piece of software. And the people who used it at
 these research universities and at the military, it was kind of like a futuristic world, right?
 You could send email and a second later it would appear, right? It was really quick and
 everything was nice. And you could even have instant message-like interactions where it
 went right then. And the problem was, is this was a small group of people. This is maybe
 looks like 60 or so. That was all the computers on the entire Internet, right? I mean, now
 we have our cell phones and we have billions of them, right? But this is like 60. And so
 a real question is, how did this go from 60 computers of a very narrow group to a much
 larger group? And the answer to that question is at Urbana-Champaign, Illinois. And so at
 the same time that it kind of goes back to Bletchley Park, right? Where the computers
 were part of science. Throughout the 50s and 60s and 70s, scientists, much like the military,
 were realizing computers were mighty useful to advance scientific research. And so the
 National Science Foundation would fund universities to buy computers. And they'd say, "Give me
 $10 million to buy a computer." And another university would be like, "Give me $10 million
 to buy a computer." And then three years later the first university said, "My computer's
 obsolete. I need another $10 million." Now the research questions were good research
 questions and they were important to society, but the National Science Foundation got tired
 of giving $10 million to everybody. Wait, hang on a second. As a matter of fact, I was
 part of this because I used to be a high-performance computer guy. This is a convex C3800 supercomputer.
 I would be about this tall on this supercomputer. This is a lovely and very expensive model
 that I was given afterwards. They were going to throw it away because this is from like
 1987. And basically I wanted one of these terribly badly. Each one of these is about
 $2 million. This is like two, four, six, eight, $10 million. And I so badly wanted this and
 I thought that I deserved a $10 million toy and I could do such great research. But unfortunately
 everybody else wanted the exact same thing. And they were important too. So the National
 Science Foundation said to themselves, "Hey, this isn't going to work very well if I can't
 find my pen. You know, we're going to make a network. How about we put a few of these
 things in and then make a network and connect them together?" Of course it's never as simple
 as that. So now we're going to meet Larry Smarr at the National Center for Supercomputing
 Applications, NCSA, at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. And Larry was the director
 of NCSA and one of the many people, but one of the most instrumental people in creating
 the national network that we now think of as the internet and getting it, moving it
 from being a research project to being a project that we all, both academics and regular people,
 we all can can make really good use of it. So let's take a look at Larry Smarr.
