 Hello everybody, Chuck here. We are in Amsterdam. This is the second office hours that have happened
 in Amsterdam and we had a great turnout tonight and I want to introduce you to your fellow
 students and let them talk a little bit about the class. So give us your name and tell us
 a little bit about the class, what you're interested in, what you think you're getting
 out of it.
 Hi, my name is Sherwin. I like computer science. I also like art in general. It was a great
 course. Dr. Chuck did a great job and it was very nice. That's it.
 Hi, I'm Andrea and I'm a lecturer at the University of Applied Sciences and I'm teaching
 some about digital interactive media. So I want to know more about the beginnings of
 the internet so that's why I took the course and it helped me build more knowledge about
 how it all began.
 So I'm really excited that you are applying some of it in your own course.
 Yes, and I'm also using the stuff I've learned and I'm using the peer grading system as well
 in one of my lectures.
 Great. Your turn.
 Hi, I'm Ben. I work here in Amsterdam. I'm a system administrator. I work with all these
 cool technologies and I miss the feeling about where it all came from and how it started.
 So this course really gives me that information and it helps a lot to understand how things
 came to be. So thanks, Chuck.
 So how do you think the course could be improved?
 I think you need to put in something about the seven layer OC model because it's lacking
 that. Other than that, keep on rolling.
 Yeah. Hi, everyone. I'm Juliana from Brazil. I'm doing a master here in Amsterdam. It's
 New Media and Digital Culture. So well, I enrolled in this MOOC because I'm studying MOOCs. It's
 what I did for my master's thesis. And well, it's a really great course. I expect that
 I want to continue with the course because I just did the first week, but okay, that's
 another story. It's really great. It's a great way, a fun way to learn about internet, not
 to read like a boring week video article. So yeah, I want to continue.
 Thank you. Now you are the, you're the first person who's ever come to Office Hours before
 the, you're registered for the next class, right?
 Exactly.
 So tell us a little bit about what you expect might come out of the course.
 Well, I got extremely curious to hear about all what I've already heard from the former
 students. I want to learn about, scratch about internet and learn how it's functioning, where
 it's coming from, to understand it, actually, because I'm coming from the streets of humanities
 and I don't know anything about it. So this is why I'm here. And thanks for being so
 enthusiastic, actually, and teaching us.
 And so there you have it. Yet another successful Office Hours around the world. It's the first
 time that I've done an Office Hours more than once in the same city. Cheers.
