 Well I am a trained relativistic astrophysicist and I got my PhDs always in physics departments
 working on astrophysics problems involving general relativity, gas dynamics and so forth
 and so in the 70s when I was developing what is now called numerical general relativity
 which is the way to solve Einstein's equations for dynamics of black holes, colliding black
 holes or in astrophysics that require general relativity like supernova events and so on.
 I had to go and get a top secret nuclear weapons clearance to get access to supercomputers
 because in the mid 70s the only place to get a supercomputer was either at Livermore in
 Los Alamos or in one area which was weather. Now astronomy has always been a driver of
 supercomputing and in fact on Johnny von Neumann's computer that was built by the Institute half
 of that went to army to Aberdeen. Half of that was used of course for the army for trajectory
 calculations but the other half was used for stellar evolution. So astronomy and von Neumann's
 interest in weather meant that astronomy and weather for 50 years basically have been dominant
 drivers of supercomputing usage and yet to do pure astrophysics you're having to get
 a top secret nuclear weapons clearance. Now nobody seemed to think there was anything
 unusual about this and so I just went ahead as a post doc and I would get a few months
 in the summer, work a hundred hours a week and then the last of the year I'd have to
 live off that, go back to Harvard where I was a junior fellow, try to explain to them
 about one could solve the laws of physics that we had been laying down for 300 years
 in incredible detail for engineering devices like nuclear weapons that put on earth temperatures
 of the center of the sun, stresses beyond anything that we could imagine in academic
 problems that we were trying to solve in lots of disciplines. So this thing could revolutionize
 academic research. Well nobody got it. I really felt like I was transitioning in a flying
 saucer between this advanced civilization at Livermore and this Stone Age culture at
 Harvard and Harvard was as advanced as any place in thinking about this. I didn't figure
 this out until it was in the early 80s and by then the first Cray had gone into the continent
 of Europe in an open scientific institute, the Max Planck Institute of Physics and Astrophysics
 so I'm over there in the summer along with people like Dave Arnett who is one of the
 great supernova super computer guys in our country and people in chemistry and it was
 like Paris in the 20s with all these ex-patriots sitting over there and we're like trying to
 figure this out like it's an American built super computer right? Why are we in Munich?
 Right? I mean this is very strange. So but you know in America we don't question the
 infrastructure somehow. I mean it's just like it's either there or it isn't there or that's
 just the way it is. But I was having a mass of beer late one night. Actually I think it
 was the second mass of beer with my German host who had also been born like I was post
 war and he finally turns to me and he says aren't you ashamed of yourself? You big rich
 occupying country. You come over here in our little country and we finally get enough money
 scraped together after World War II to buy one of these super computers and you Americans
 come over here and use up our time. He says how did you guys ever win the war? What is
 going on here? And so this finally sort of just stimulated me into saying what is going
 on here? This is nuts and I went back and I found out for instance that after the Sputnik
 program the federal government had funded the universities, built the science buildings,
 converted the super computer centers, IBM would go around and give away almost the main
 frames and so the scientists in the 60s took it for granted that they had the fastest computers
 in the world in academia. But about 1970 with the starting of the Vietnam War and with all
 kinds of guns and butters issues and everything else that stopped. And in fact to give you
 an example by 78 half the number of PhDs and engineers in engineering was being generated
 in our country as there were in 1970. So there was this complete severing of the Sputnik
 era partnership with the federal government and it was particularly bad in computing.
 To give you an example when I was at Livermore in the 70s there were four CDC 7600s which
 were just one of the finest super computers ever built. No American university ever took
 delivery of a single CDC 7600. In fact the University of Illinois when I first got here
 had a cyber 175 which was a retread, a second design manufacturing of this thing and we
 were one of the first universities that had it and people all thought that Illinois naturally
 was way ahead of everybody else. So it's like we were just completely divorced from the
 private sector that was generating these wonderful machines because of federal policy which was
 to say these things are so valuable that we can only afford to put them into war environments.
 So after this German encounter I came back and I said well gee I wonder how many other
 scientists like me are there. So at the University of Illinois I started cold calling my colleagues
 and saying hi you don't know me I'm a little assistant professor but I bet you that your
 research is blocked by lack of access to super computers and they sort of said like who is
 this you know crank call and but we'd start talking in chemistry and biology and agriculture
 and so on and sure enough it turns out that that was true they knew how to do the science
 they just didn't have access. So I said well send me a little perspective of what science
 you could do if you had a super computer. Well I ended up with 65 faculty in 15 departments
 on one campus and I thought this has got to be this way all over the country. So it was
 I really said saying well gee somebody's got to raise this issue and about that time there
 had been a lax report that had the federal government had done to begin to undercover
 some of this stuff but they still weren't I remember Peter lax he was one of the greatest
 mathematicians head of one of the top people in the cron institute a long time advocate
 of things computational and I had this long long battle with Peter because in the draft
 report of the lax report it was not it was going to say well yeah we got to get one of
 these super computers and make it available to the universities but you know let's put
 it at Livermore put it somewhere that people know how to do this stuff and a university
 was not on the list of what the lax report considered to be appropriate sites for a supercomputer
 so I had this long battle over the telephone I remember with Peter lax sort of David and
 Goliath because I mean he was this giant of the field I'm nobody and I finally convinced
 him not to exclude universities as a possibility even though he felt that it was fairly unlikely
 that any of them would be able to play with sharp instruments and not hurt themselves
 so I mean you gotta understand the world was totally different when the supercomputer centers
 program was coming into being and people it's so hard for people now on the web and everything
 to go back to that time there was no internet you know there was there was these wonderful
 people vent surf and bob con and all these people bill joy who had developed tcpip and
 embodied it in the arpanet this is a few computer science departments and military okay nobody
 in a physics department or chemistry department ever heard of the arpanet much less had any
 access to it but it was obviously the right idea and so once we got the congress to put
 through money for a national supercomputer program then there was a national competition
 and and and so on and the five centers were selected the first thing then that NSF realized
 well okay now we put these in place to be providing access to academic scientists and
 yet like they have to fly to champaign urbana like I had to fly to livermore okay this isn't
 right so there were a lot of discussions then but the trouble was that the telecom lobbyist
 in washington would block any discussion of the federal government putting in the kind
 of network we have today which is what people wanted I mean everybody knew that they wanted
 to have a ubiquitous email person to person network but as soon as they'd start talking
 about that the telecom lobbyist would come up and say no way guys that's private sector
 don't get the federal government involved in that stay out of it so what we learned
 early on is real interesting it's like if we had argued instead of the supercomputer
 program let's get the federal government to buy everybody a personal computer which was
 IBM personal computer was two years old in 1985 and put on people's desk okay again this
 would be an interference with the private sector so but we said oh we'll just take a few of
 these esoteric supercomputers and they said okay that's right there's no market there
 that's okay the federal government has a role well it was the same thing with networking
 what we said is we just want to put a high speed backbone across the country to connect
 the five centers and the telecom people said okay that's cool you know 56 kilobits was
 the national high speed backbone less than ISDN today yeah that's not a market okay and
 we said we got a few of these weird supercomputer types who are out in universities who want
 to hook into that they say yeah that's okay that's not a market you can do that well that
 was the NSF net backbone then the regionals got funded and then the campuses were afraid
 that if they didn't dig up their quad and put in some fiber then the professors who
 wanted to get access to supercomputers would go to a university that would do that so gradually
 the whole internet emerged out of the sort of policy vice you get into Washington where
 you can't do the right thing you have to do something that seems irrelevant but has a
 logic to it that will gradually bring the market forces into play that will spin out
 ultimately a whole industry.
