 Back in the mid-80s, the National Science Foundation decided to establish supercomputing
 centers and the University of Michigan was one of the organizations that made a proposal
 for a national supercomputing center.
 The Michigan proposal had as its primary hardware artifact, a machine that was built in Japan.
 And I explained to my colleagues, my new colleagues, the University of Michigan having just arrived
 that it was highly unlikely that the proposal would be funded.
 A short while later, I was visiting the National Science Foundation and I had gotten to know,
 not well, but had gotten to know Eric Block, who was then director of the National Science
 Foundation.
 And Eric and I had a conversation about Michigan's proposal.
 And it was clear to me from my conversation with Eric that there was no prospect that
 the Michigan proposal would be funded.
 I said to Eric, I said, "Well, it occurs to me that what might be even better for the
 University of Michigan than having a supercomputing center is to run the network that connects
 all of the supercomputing centers."
 At any rate, I had an old friend who worked for IBM Research by the name of Al Weiss,
 who's in charge of all of IBM Research's computing facilities.
 And I called Al and I said, "Al, this is a great opportunity, but IBM is not going
 to be successful here and I need your help."
 And so Al sort of rallied some folks from IBM Research, where there actually was work
 going on in TCP/IP protocols.
 We got tentatively an agreement from IBM that they would contribute the hardware and the
 software to create the routing structure for the network.
 But we still needed the communications facilities.
 And at that time, the CFO at IBM was a gentleman, I think I remember the name correctly, his
 last name was Crowe.
 And so through IBM, we went to him and he had contacts with a former IBM employee who
 was now the Chief Technical Officer and essentially the Chief Network Operations Officer for MCI.
 His name was Dick Liebhaber.
 And so IBM approached Dick Liebhaber and asked him if MCI would be interested in providing
 the communications facilities for this network.
 Well, as you may recall, at that time, MCI was this fledgling organization.
 Some people had described it really as a law office trying to create an environment where
 they could actually offer telecommunication services up against AT&T's lobbying efforts.
 They had just been successful in that.
 They were establishing facilities across the United States.
 And Dick Liebhaber saw this as an opportunity to sort of move MCI into the big time to be
 part of this NSFNET proposal.
 And so we wound up with an agreement that we would file a joint proposal with Merit
 as the principal organization in partnership with IBM who would build all the routing hardware
 and software and with MCI who would provide the nationwide communications facilities.
 And while we were--and then we got Governor Blanchard to commit a million dollars a year
 from state funds in addition.
 So we wound up being able to submit a proposal to the National Science Foundation I think
 for something like $14.7 million because we knew the ceiling was 15.
 But in fact, by including all this in kind activity, it was actually more like a $55
 million proposal.
 It was designed to start at T1 or 1.5 megabits with planned upgrades over the period of the
 network's life.
 We subsequently learned that the proposal was received with considerable skepticism
 by the reviewers of the National Science Foundation.
 People really wondered about our technical ability to pull this off.
 But that review was conducted without reference to the actual funding pattern.
 And then when the wraps got pulled off of the amount of resource that was being committed
 by the partners to this proposal, it immediately went to the top of the list at the NSF.
 And a short period later, we received informal word that they wanted to negotiate with us
 about sort of working this all out.
 But we had to do a lot of innovation.
 The border gateway protocols had to be developed to allow multiple networks to interact with
 one another.
 And we had to build increasingly more capable routing and communications facilities.
 When we started the network, we had T1 circuits, but there were no cards for computers that
 would go at 1.5 megabits.
 We used the T1 circuits we subdivided and built a mesh network among all of the routers
 that we put in place.
 It wasn't for about a year, IBM was actually to build prototype cards that would go at
 1.5 megabits.
 When we put those cards in our test network, we discovered they worked just fine.
 We put them in the production network, the network started failing on us.
 And we discovered after a very tough period that the folks who had built the T1 hardware
 for MCI had planned on using certain bit patterns to do diagnosis on the network and had never
 anticipated the notion that anybody would ever use a full 1.5 megabits as a single channel.
 They had always thought that it would be broken up into a set of voice circuits at 64 kilobits
 each.
 And so they didn't have any worry about these patterns ever appearing on their network.
 Well, it turned out that that happened with some frequency on the NSF net and it took
 the communications line down when it did.
 So they had to re-engineer their hardware to undertake this.
 We actually had for a short period of time put some translation circuits in our routers
 that actually looked for these bit patterns, took them out and replaced them with something
 else and then reinserted them at the other end to make it work over these T1 circuits.
 So we had a lot of adventure.
 Finally in, I think it was around 1990, this network was growing so fast that it was clear
 that these T1 circuits were not going to enable what we needed to do.
 So we had to go to the next step which was DS3 or from 1.5 megabits to 45 megabits which
 was a very large step, a 30-fold increase in capacity.
 And in order to do that we wound up creating another not-for-profit organization called
 Advanced Network and Services.
 Merit was still the principal investigator on the grant but it subcontracted the development
 of this new network, this 45 megabit network to Advanced Network and Services which was
 headquartered in Armonk.
 And IBM, MCI and Nortel all contributed $3 million to the founding of this new organization
 so it had the staff and the facilities to do the innovation that required us to go up
 to 45 megabits.
 That did accommodate our capacity needs over the life of the NSFnet.
 The NSFnet was the fastest internet network to the end.
 It finally was decommissioned in 1995 when the Congress decided that the federal government
 should not be in the business of supporting something that by that time in their view
 should have become a commercial facility.
 I'll not ever forget sitting in a house hearing room in the Capitol and next to Mitch
 Kapoor and some small internet company startup CEOs who were complaining to the Congress
 that it was inappropriate for the NSFnet to be funded by the National Science Foundation
 when they could provide this service as a commercial service.
 At the very same time they were making that complaint, they were using NSFnet as their
 backup network to carry traffic when their much less reliable networks failed on a national
 scale.
 MCI of course turned out to be a major internet service provider also using the same technology.
 In a classic innovator's curse moment, IBM who was at that time the leader in routing
 technology for internet backbones, managed to decide that they should kill all of the
 work they had done in developing these routers because it would threaten their proprietary
 network efforts.
 It's probably almost single handedly responsible for the fact that Cisco became the dominant
 router company in the United States rather than IBM.
