 So, as you can see, none of this is easy. It wasn't easy for Larry Smarr, and now we basically have the lobbyists once again.
 The lobbyists are deciding that there's only going to be $15 million, because if it's $15 million, they can only build a 56 kilobit line.
 But Michigan thought outside the box. Some people might say we cheated. Other universities wanted to get the grant, kind of thought we did cheat.
 We didn't play by the rules. Like in Star Trek, we rewrote the rules. So we got it.
 And we slid underneath the nose of AT&T, a 1.5 megabit network that started large and started fast and got faster.
 And as Doug talked, it was a very, very, very successful network. And it had follow-on effects, just like Larry talked about.
 It had these follow-on effects of causing campuses to build networking, because in would come this really fast national network.
 So you better fix the on-campus networking. So it was really quite wonderful. And partners, IBM, MCI.
 The other thing is AT&T was being beat up by MCI at the time, and maybe they weren't noticing.
 So we might have been lucky. It could easily have been two years earlier or two years later. It might not have worked.
 But whatever. It did work. And we can be very grateful.
 So the University of Michigan was sort of the center of -- they ran the Network Operations Center and did the network design.
 Worked on the software with IBM and built the network. And it had a very exponential growth as it went forward.
 This building right here is on our north campus. And it was, for me personally, the very first place that I typed the first characters that went across the internet.
 I walked in this door to -- I wasn't at the university at that time, but I had friends here.
 And so I came in and I was typing on, you know, "Hello" on the internet.
 And so this building was where the Network Operations Center was and where I touched the internet for the -- the NSF net for the first time.
 So it started out real simple, but its goal -- its goal was to enable connections to other networks.
 The regional networks got formed. Larry Smarr mentioned that.
 And so then the backbone became sort of a forcing function to get more campuses on and more and more states, et cetera, et cetera.
