 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 In the case of Ghana, private sector led.
 The government was not aware, the government was not interested.
 And so the private sector took it up.
 But the private sector we're discussing is me.
 I'm not exactly private sector, I'm academic.
 Only I did this job through the private sector.
 Meaning that I realized that you can wait for the university
 forever, because they depend on government.
 And you can wait for the government forever.
 They have no clue.
 So I actually have been known to have said publicly
 that I cannot wait for the government
 to do it for the country.
 So I know how to do it.
 I will do it, no matter how small it is,
 just to make the point that we are able to do it.
 In so doing, maybe I can create an avalanche that
 will carry through the momentum.
 And that is what I tried to do in the case of Ghana.
 Now on the continent as a whole, there are variety.
 Like in the case of Egypt, where the minister there
 happens to be one of our counterparts
 from internet society, ISOC, that's Tarek Kamel.
 And so there was a heavy government success built.
 In other places like South Africa,
 there was a good academic dose.
 So it has varied depending on the circumstance.
 But I think in much of West Africa,
 the thrust had been principally from private sector.
 Because I also went around helping Togo, private sector,
 helping Gambia, private sector.
 And so even Nigeria, giving them intellectual property
 so they could also begin to do it.
 So it became privacy helping private sector,
 but for the common good.
 Because we really felt that we had to go together.
 Otherwise, things would just disappear.
 I allowed some countries to transit their data through me.
 And Togo was an example.
 But in other places, I actually sent engineers
 to go and install nodes for them.
 And Gambia was an example.
 In other cases, I actually trained people like Swaziland.
 They brought the telco people to meet.
 We trained.
 In other cases, we did consulting services
 to help Ethiopia, and so on and so forth.
 So that was roughly the progression,
 in that the names had to come first.
 But that was meaningful.
 And we had to move mail.
 And so we had to do that.
 And then the next bit was get the capital cities connected.
 And that one was a mad rush.
 But it was a good community activity in the sense
 that we wanted to help each other.
 And that has continued till now.
 Because now, I actually run the African Network Operators Group.
 And the principal function of this group
 is to sort of help operators support themselves.
 And usually, we support ourselves
 with building our capacity in many different areas,
 mostly in infrastructure-related things,
 like routing type of issues, or server services type of issues
 for those who want to build information resources.
 The AFNUG has now become the meeting place
 for most of the technical community.
 And we meet only once a year.
 And when we meet, it's like for a period of two weeks,
 within which we spend one week to train
 whoever has been admitted into the workshops.
 And we run four workshops in parallel now.
 It didn't start as four.
 It started as just two.
 And then we've added as we went along.
 We even have a French track in the routing side of things.
 And when we meet after the workshop for the students,
 then we try to sort of induct the students
 into what the real world is.
 So we follow the workshop with meetings.
 And the meetings include the loss of parallel sessions.
 Those who are following the AFRINIC meetings
 will get to do that.
 Those who may be discussing some tutorials, maybe in security
 will also get to do that.
 And then we also have a day for conference presentations
 of 20, 30 minutes from a variety of different areas.
 And so that has now become a major meeting
 place for the engineers.
 And once a year, we all congregate.
 And it's supposed to be service to community type of thing,
 in that nobody gets paid.
 But we try to raise money for the student participants
 to come.
 And we've been getting funding.
 Cisco has been a regular funding source.
 We've got funding from IDRC, Internet Society, Francophonie,
 and a whole number of others.
 But over time, we're trying to change that program so that we
 become more self-sustaining.
 So participants who are coming in from, let's say, operators,
 telcos, and so on, we insist that they pay more of their way
 so that we can raise funding for academic and research people
 to participate, and so on.
 And that was really how things have-- and it still
 continues to be a major meeting point for many of our operators.
 Of course, once we've got the connectivity in,
 then there's a whole host of other issues
 that began to show up.
 But we thought all of them can be solved
 within the same environment.
 So you have CCTLD issues.
 Oh, you have AFTLD.
 Let AFTLD focus that.
 You have Research and Educational Network Challenge.
 Oh, build a consensus around the same meeting place.
 So to an extent, AFTLD has moved from being a workshop type
 of thing to a meeting place where many new things could
 be incubated and then allowed to blossom and take
 on their own life.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 Now, the particular case about the NIC
 was interesting in that it took us 10 years
 to get to accreditation.
 Of course, in the beginning, we certainly didn't know what it was.
 We knew it was very important.
 And for engineers, we knew that that
 was what to focus on, none of the other things.
 So we began to build consensus around it.
 A proposal was made first in '95, then '97, a formal document.
 And then we moved on.
 But we realized that we had to build something more than just
 casual meetings.
 So we went to deliberately to agree on specifics.
 And the specifics was who becomes a member of the board.
 And we decided to do it geographically so that we
 don't get too much caught into why is that there
 are so many people from the north and nobody from the south.
 So we said, OK, each one of the sub-regions
 gets to elect one person.
 So it's the members who will elect that person.
 And that person will serve for a period of one, two, three
 years, depending on the staggering.
 And that is how that one also came.
 But the difficult thing with that was, as we were learning,
 that meant more and more people were coming.
 So whenever we thought we had an agreement on something,
 we were about to move forward in cooperation,
 then more people come.
 One case was very disturbing.
 And that's sort of a moment.
 And that one, John Puster, was also there.
 This was very early.
 And he had agreed that, me, just do it.
 You have to do it.
 It has to happen.
 So I invited them all to a meeting with the African
 engineers and everything.
 And suddenly, somebody got up and said, no, no, no, no, no.
 Why don't we share it up into the countries
 and have this all go our separate ways?
 And I mean, at that point, I thought
 that was the end of the world.
 And to be honest with you, I never
 felt so ashamed because I was a bit
 of an interface between the African technical community
 and the global community.
 I knew John Puster myself personally.
 And they've come to sort of help me.
 But my people were not ready.
 So all John could say to me was, get your people ready.
 And you will have it.
 So I had to continue until I was able to build some shared
 consensus.
 And in 2005, we got it.
 And at that point, it was also evident
 that if it has taken so long, there are maybe two factors
 I have to consider.
 In 10 years, I would have upset a lot of people.
 And this could be real in the sense
 that the three registries had to give up
 something for Afrinik to exist.
 So it's inevitable that I would have
 made a number of people in those three registries uncomfortable.
 So for me, it was obvious I could not
 continue in the same capacity.
 Of course, I didn't tell my colleagues
 that this was my real feeling.
 But it was also true that if I were to stay there,
 I'll get less participation.
 I'll have less motivation for people to make an effort.
 And what I needed more was more people
 making efforts than just one person trying to do things.
 Because I knew that the space was so large that even if I
 had nothing to do with these things,
 there was plenty for me to do.
 So the strategic thinking was, find a way
 to exit without telling anybody.
 Make sure you don't give out too much information for people
 to capitalize and game on it.
 So everybody thought I was indeed
 going to be the next official chair, not the startup chair,
 but the official chair.
 And I let them think so.
 But when it came to the board meeting,
 I decided to dissolve the board.
 And I got vote for it.
 And then I decided I would not run again.
 And at the same time, certain people
 who have been, you might say, controversial
 in their contribution, I tried to urge them not to.
 And in some cases, I even told them
 that if you tried, I would marshal the community
 to vote you out.
 And in some cases, they tried and they were voted out.
 But that created a certain flow of maybe new entrants
 wanting to contribute service to the community.
 And that has continued till now.
 And I think that that has been a very good thing for Afrinik.
 And of course, we also observed in the case of Afrinik
 that the ability to make local policy
 does affect the effectiveness of the task at hand.
 So for example, we know that soon after accreditation,
 the type of membership we had began to skew more
 towards a smaller size.
 Because majority of the operators
 were actually small operators.
 And they were trying to fit into a large market,
 a large operator community environment.
 And we were working with Riot and Afrinik and so on.
 And that wasn't working so well.
 So by us changing the policy to recognize the size,
 the true size of our operators, we
 were able to increase the membership.
 And beyond that, we realized that our location also,
 we changed the policy so that our location sizes were
 smaller than the normal that a person, a typical operator,
 would get.
 So by knowing the community and making the policies,
 the community making the policy to suit itself,
 you're able to get a better match
 to the needs of the community.
 And that has shown in the growth and uptake of, at least,
 IPv4 addresses from Afrinik.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
