 Hello everybody, we are here in Cape Town, South Africa with yet another wonderful office
 hours just down the hill from UCT, University of Cape Town and as usual I'd like to introduce
 you to your fellow students, let them say hi and a little message, whatever. So here
 we go.
 So, yeah, you'll be first.
 Hi, I'm Christy, I'm doing a PhD in bioinformatics and the course is really helpful to me.
 Thanks.
 Hi, my name is Kabongo, I did this course last year, now I'm doing machine learning.
 Machine learning, great.
 I am Rian and I did the course last year, it's my first programming and I can't stop.
 Great, great.
 Hi, it's Jeff here. Yeah, I did most of the Python courses last year and I've just been
 enjoying all the MOOC ideas and yeah, just keep programming and do your thing.
 Cool.
 Hi, I'm Steven Marquardt from UCT and my email address features in the Python MOOC.
 Yeah, yeah, so Steven is famous in the Python MOOC. He's the, in chapter 6 we parse his
 email name to find @UCTACZA. So, Steven, famous email address. I'll put something over top
 of you that says something about your famous email address.
 Hi everyone, I'm Joseph. I did the Internet History course and I found it very helpful.
 I'm also doing the Python for everyone.
 Great, thanks.
 Hello, my name is Darry. I started with the Internet History course. I have a telecom
 computer background but now I work as a web developer.
 You work as a web developer?
 Yeah.
 You weren't a web developer before?
 No, mixing the two.
 Cool, cool.
 Hi, my name is Joey and I finally met Dr. Chuck. Thank you for the course.
 And I finally met Joey.
 Cool.
 And had to come all the way to South Africa to meet Joey.
 Cool.
 Hi, I'm John and I'm an engineer and I use the Python I learnt every day at work.
 Cool.
 Hi, I'm Kat and I'm also an engineer and I really enjoyed all of Dr. Chuck's courses
 and I hope that there are going to be a few more coming out in the future.
 Yes, indeed. Okay, so could you point it back at me again?
 Okay, so there you have it. Yet another successful office hours. It was really, we had a great
 time. We almost got kicked out of the coffee shop but we didn't. I think the next office
 hours might be in Denver. So if you see this, maybe we'll see you in Denver. Cheers.
