 Now, one of the things that was quite interesting is we in the academic field had the right
 to use this network, but when it first started out, it was supposed to be academic only.
 And then once it was established in the late '80s and early '90s, there were some people
 that started sort of like bending those rules or bypassing those rules or ignoring those
 rules.
 And it wasn't really clear who was supposed to police those rules.
 And the people like at the University of Michigan, their heart wasn't in reducing who would use
 the Internet.
 They wanted to expand, right?
 And so there were places, often bulletin board systems would somehow get a connection to
 the Internet, and then they would give Internet access to a bunch of non-academics.
 And so it became increasingly in the late '80s understood by everyone around the world.
 But this is pretty much nerds, right?
 They can sit with a screen, with a command line interface, with a text-based screen,
 and they can get excited about that.
 I'm like that.
 I get excited about things that are non-graphical because I just make it up in my head.
 But we needed something to pop this into the collective consciousness of all humanity rather
 than just academics first and then nerds second.
 But that was about to change.
 So we started our picture where we had supercomputers at University of Illinois.
 We went to the University of Michigan.
 We got the NSF net funded.
 And now we are going to fly across the ocean to CERN.
 CERN, of course, is a high energy physics laboratory.
 They do this 26-mile circle and smash particles and take pictures of the smashing particles
 and looking for the Higgs boson or found the Higgs boson.
 It's a really cool place I recommend that you visit.
 The CERN is a place that physicists from all over the world visit, live at, and collaborate
 with.
 For experimental physics, it really revolves around those experimental facilities.
 And so regardless of whether you live in Russia or Australia or Germany or America or Japan,
 if you're a high energy nuclear physicist, you have got to work with CERN or spend time
 at CERN.
 And those who spend time at CERN tend to make the best discoveries.
 And so these projects have such long lead times, and they take so many different kinds
 of talented people.
 There are metallurgy, welders, physicists, engineers, designers, project managers.
 There's a ton of people involved in it.
 And it's a pretty well-funded operation, and everyone's pretty smart.
 So one of the things that they do is they have fun.
 They have these clubs, like the softball club, the cricket club, the blues club.
 And it's kind of like these people are somewhat away from home a lot, and so they just have
 fun with each other.
 This is a picture that I will show you of the CERNets.
 They are famous for being the first band photo on the web.
 Some people wonder if they're the very first photo on the web.
 But they are a doo-wop group, and they sing sort of '50s style doo-wop songs.
 They are very fun to watch.
 But their songs are about like particles and internet and modems and stuff like that, stuff
 that I care a lot about.
 They sadly, they've been doing this since the 1990s, '90, '91, '92 kind of time frame.
 And they all grew up, and their kids grew up, and their kids are all in college.
 And so they did their farewell tour in 2011, and one of them's moved to Australia.
 So we don't know if the CERNets are ever going to get back together and sing.
 But for now, they're on permanent hiatus.
 But for your viewing pleasure, take a quick look at one or more of the CERNets songs.
