 So like I said, you should go visit CERN. I have had the great fortune to visit CERN.
 I have visited CERN in a professional role. I helped them record lectures with my Synch-O-Matic
 software that you may have heard me talk about. I have visited sort of in helping other technology
 things and teaching and learning with technology and things like that. And so they've got a
 wonderful cafe. And if you are working with people, you get to go in the back and hang
 out. That's pretty cool. They also have a wonderful museum that you can go see the first
 web server and all kinds of other cool stuff. And in 2006, '06, I was lucky enough to have
 an invited talk at CERN where I talked about Sakai and how they might use Sakai to do collaborative
 work. And I brought my family with me. And so my wife, Teresa, and my daughter, Mandy,
 and my son, Brent, and there is me. We are in the pit. And this pit is like eight or
 nine stories underground. It is six stories tall. This is where the beam comes in right
 here. It's three stories from the bottom of the pit. The pit is six stories tall. At this
 point, it was only less than one third complete. And so we could go on a tour. And so I have
 a family photo with hard hats in the CERN pit. And that's pretty cool. Another time
 I visited, I went and sang with one of our University of Michigan physicists. And that
 would be this guy right here. His name is Stephen Goldfarb. And he's a physicist that
 works on the Atlas project. But he also is the band leader of an all-physicist band called
 the Cernets, the Cernets Blues Band. And he let me sing a song. I was coming to do some
 video work for him. I happened to be in the area. And I just stopped by on one of my trips.
 And me and another Michigan staffer, we grabbed a couple of cameras. We made some music videos
 for him and put the Cernets, some of the Cernets music videos up on the web. And then they
 let me sing one song called "Got My Mojo Workin'." And so I've got, I'll share with
 you the video of "Got My Mojo Workin'." It's just, oh, so everybody in this band is
 a physicist and pretty much everybody dancing is a physicist too. Now the reason I'm showing
 you all this is to give you a sense of the energy and joy in addition to the hard work
 that goes on at CERN. You guys are all going to be on YouTube soon. Thanks to Chuck, man.
 This guy's got more talent than that. I'm going to get him up here if you guys help
 out. You got the mojo song? You can do the mojo song. We're going to get him up here.
 That's what I do. Let's go. Let's do this.
 Got my mojo workin' for you, just for workin' for you. Got my mojo workin' for you, just
 for workin' for you. I wanna love you so bad, don't know what to do. Let me tell you, Chuck.
 I got my mojo workin' for you, just for workin' for you. I wanna love you so bad, don't know
 what to do. I got my mojo workin' for you, just for workin' for you. I wanna love you
 so bad, don't know what to do.
 I got my mojo workin' for you, just for workin' for you. I wanna love you so bad, don't know
 what to do. I got my mojo workin' for you, just for workin' for you. I wanna love you
 so bad, don't know what to do.
 I got my mojo workin' for you, just for workin' for you. I got my mojo workin' for you, just
 for workin' for you. I got my mojo workin' for you, just for workin' for you. I got my
 mojo workin' for you, just for workin' for you. I got my mojo workin' for you, just for
 workin' for you. I got my mojo workin' for you, just for workin' for you. I got my mojo
 workin' for you, just for workin' for you. I got my mojo workin' for you, just for workin'
 for you. I got my mojo workin' for you, just for workin' for you. I got my mojo workin'
 for you. I got my mojo workin' for you. I got my mojo workin' for you. I got my mojo workin'
 for you.
 I got my mojo workin' for you.
 I got my mojo workin' for you.
 I got my mojo workin' for you.
 I got my mojo workin' for you.
 I got my mojo workin' for you.
 I got my mojo workin' for you.
