 So I really like that video. It's real precious to me. I shot it in 1999. I don't know if you noticed, but I got a ponytail and back, and I got a village people mustache.
 When I first came to University of Michigan, I thought I was pretty special, and so I grew the ponytail. I don't have a ponytail anymore. Oh, my hair's a little darker now.
 I really liked the moment where he started yelling at me because I liked HTML, and HTML these days with HTML5 is so much better than HTML was.
 He was exactly right that HTML wasn't elegant, but it was amazingly powerful at the same time, and the fact that we could see it meant that people believed in it, and it wasn't magic.
 The other thing that you might have noticed is that he had some very strong opinions about the design of what a web browser should be, and they might not have seemed logical when you first listened to them.
 One thing he said was every image had to pop up in the same screen, and Mosaic had one page that replaced the whole thing, and you saw the images in line, which is not what we wanted to do. That's what Robert said.
 That might sound illogical today with Farmville and Facebook and all these things, but you have to understand that in 1990 the network was very different, even than it was in 1995.
 It was a very slow network, and if you put images on every page, they would slow down terribly, and so what that user interface looked like is you had a document that was the text, bold, italics, these kinds of things, and when you clicked on something, you got a new page.
 And then it would take a while for this page to display because the networks were really and truly slow, and the computers were slow as well.
 So that might sound to you as an irrational design choice, but in the time of 1990 it was a completely rational design choice.
 And one of the things that sort of changed over time was that became less and less a rational design choice as the networks became faster, the computers became faster, and images became more of a natural thing that the technology was capable of handling.
 So continuing our story, we started at University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, we went to University of Michigan, we got the NSFnet up in 1990, and CERN creates the World Wide Web. The Web took a great step forward at Stanford University when the very first web server in America came up.
 Now, the fact that it's the very first web server is not actually all that important. What was important was what was on that web server.
 It was 300,000 physics papers at the Slack Stanford Linear Accelerator stored in the database on a mainframe, and Robert Caillou mentioned this in his conversation about this.
 Now, what happened was, Paul Koons, who you'll meet just in a moment, he said, "I'll put my database." The database was well known and people had many ways of using it, but with the Web it made it much more easily used. And so I think, in a way, Paul Koons inadvertently created the first search engine, the first reading of something that's mostly content that people read.
 Up to that point, Tim Berners-Lee and Robert were really trying to build something that allowed collective editing of information stored on servers all around the world. So let's take a listen to Paul Koons.
 Well, the database that was here at Slack was used by people around the world, but with great difficulty because they had to have an account on the mainframe. Most people weren't familiar with mainframes.
 And second of all, the database language that you had to type in was difficult. So before there was a Web, I invented a way for people to do what's now called instant messaging and to do a query to the database without logging in, and that improved access to the database.
 You still had this terrible language of the database machine to type in in order to do your query. Little later on, people added an email interface so you could send your query by email and get your response back by email.
 So when I was at CERN in September 1991, and Tim Berners-Lee dragged me into his office to give me a demo of the Web. At first I wasn't very interested, but when he demonstrated doing a query to a help system database on a mainframe, I immediately put two and two together and said, "Well, if you can query a help system on a mainframe, you can query a database on a mainframe."
 And I started getting interested. The thing is that we couldn't change the query commands because that was built into the database, but the Web page could give you examples and remind you what the query would be.
 So did you have to write it all from scratch? I mean, did you write it from the protocol or was there software that you reused to make your first Web server?
 Well, I used the CERN server software, which was written in C. Unfortunately, we had a C compiler on the mainframe at that time. It wasn't very long that we had a C compiler, but we had one.
 So all I had to do was to write some extra C code to get the query that the user had made and turn it into the database query.
 When it was December 12, 1991, we installed our Web server and we informed Tim Berners-Lee that day to give it a try.
 The big boost came about a month later in January in southern France where there was a workshop on computing topics for high energy and nuclear physics.
 And at that workshop, Tim Berners-Lee had a plenary talk. So he gave his hour-long talk to about 200 physicists from around the world.
 And as part of his talk, he gave a demo. And at the very end, most people, I think, were bored most of the time.
 The worst thing that software people want to think about is documentation, and he was pitching documentation.
 But at the end of the talk, he connected to the Slack Web server and made a query.
 And that really dropped a lot of jaws because everybody knew the database. Everybody knew how hard it was to access.
 And here he just clicked away, typed in a few things for the query term, and bang, the results came back nicely formatted.
 So the way I say it, the interest in the Web went from about 20 people to 200 people in that hour.
 Now those 200 people went back home, and if each one of them told 10 people, then within a week, the interest in the Web grew to 2,000 people.
 So that was the big turning point, and I think Tim recognizes that that was really the kickoff.
 And I think the reason that the Web took off so quickly once the comers appreciated it and started to realize it, it's a win-win situation.
 It's a win for the customer, obviously, because he can do price comparisons, he can browse the airline schedules on his own and visualize what he wants to see quickly.
 He can cut and try different things as much patience as he has to get the price down. So it's much, much better for the consumer.
 But what about the provider, the airlines? Well, it's much better for them, because it's just software that's running on machines.
 It's much lower cost for them, and so they're winning, too.
 I pointed out in my talk about the Web near the end, sort of a punchline, that in doing big science, we're finding solutions to problems that the general public don't know they have.
 So who would predict that out of hydrophysics research, something like the Web would come up? I think that would be unpredictable.
 But in hindsight, you can see that it was a natural place for the Web to have been invented.
