 So again, I think Paul really created for us the first search engine and showed that the web could be a mostly consumed environment and be extremely useful.
 When you think about it, if there was no web and there was no content, how would you know that the web is a great way to view content?
 So Paul Coons had the advantage that he had a lot of content, and it was content that at least the physicists found extremely valuable, and then people go, "Oh, I can see."
 As a matter of fact, I remember when I first saw the web, I was like, "Okay, fine. It's got pictures. Who cares?"
 Because other things like Gopher were just as good.
 And then I saw the ability to go to Federal Express and track a package, and I go, "Now that's a cool idea."
 Gopher couldn't do that.
 As a matter of fact, in 1993, sort of three years after the web was created, the web was actually not all that popular.
 1991 was the Paul Coons, but that was mostly physicists and a few nerds, myself included.
 But in 1993, Gopher was a much better product, and it was a much more beloved product.
 And the problem, again, came down to the fact that the network was so slow that simple text-based things worked better than highly graphical things.
 There's an apocryphal story that happened in March of 1993 where there was a meeting of the Internet Engineering Task Force that does standards for all these things.
 And they had a bird-of-a-feather session for Gopher and a bird-of-a-feather session for the World Wide Web.
 And the Gopher session was full of people, and they couldn't have enough in the room, and they were sitting on the floor and peeking in the door.
 And then later, I wasn't at this meeting, by the way.
 Rich Wiggins, my co-host on the television show, was at this meeting.
 And what he tells me is, at the bird-of-a-feather meeting, there was almost nobody there.
 And Turnburner's Lee was like, "I've been working on this thing for three years, and it's better than Gopher, but nobody wants to use it."
 And the people in the room at that point told him, they said, "It's just too complex. It's too hard to get working."
 So this was a long time ago, and the Web was not assured to be a success at that point. It just wasn't really clear.
 The university was getting the idea that we had to spend a lot of money on a campus-wide network
 and that maybe we should use it for something besides connecting to the mainframe.
 So most of the top of the computer center was saying maybe we should do something with publishing information.
 That'd be an interesting sort of use of the network that more people could use than just the people who wanted to talk to the mainframe.
 Were you surprised at how fast Gopher took off?
 Yeah, absolutely shocked, because we basically wrote something that we thought would be good enough for our campus
 and hoped that a few other places would use it because then if somebody at a different institution used it,
 we'd have some credibility locally that, "Hey, we're not just saying it's good. Somebody else is saying it's good."
 So that it was accepted is probably more a sign that it just happened to be the right thing at the right time.
 The environment was ripe for something like that, and we had an okay product at the right time.
 Basically, we put it up for anonymous FTP and sent out a couple announcements on Newsnet saying,
 "Hey, here's a thing that does kind of a campus-wide information system."
 The fashion back then was to say, "Everybody needs to have a CWIS, a campus-wide information system."
 So Gopher, we thought, made a pretty good one because he didn't have to centralize publishing on one machine.
 You could let individual departments publish off their own machines and control their own content.
 That model turned out to be a pretty good one, so lots of other places started using it.
 So we had kind of the right idea at the point where this particular issue, campus-wide information system,
 was something that all of the university computer centers were saying, "I've got to have one of these."
 The technology we built Gopher to work with were fairly slow machines with limited graphics and slow modems.
 That was our design point because that's what people had six, seven years ago.
 And while we added graphics and movies and those sorts of things,
 Gopher wasn't designed to be hypertext and really media-rich documents.
 It was aimed more at run fast over limited bandwidth on slow machines.
 So 1993 was kind of like, it was a real, there was a lot of things that could have been very different in 1993.
 And I want to show you a commercial, and there's a couple of these out there,
 from 1993 that one of the large telecommunications vendors put out as a national ad campaign.
 And this is what the telecommunications industry was thinking about.
 They saw it all happening. They saw this all happening. They knew it was going to be big.
 They knew it was going to allow interactions in many ways. They knew it. They weren't dumb.
 It was like, "Whoa, what's going on?" No, not at all. They absolutely knew.
 So this really wonderful series of commercials is just quite amazing.
 So take a look. At the end you'll see actually what the large telecommunications company's name is.
 So take a quick look.
 So again, sort of looking back at this and looking at things that might not have been,
 there's nobody that really makes the connection that Steve Jobs might have had some impact on the World Wide Web.
 But in a way, he was actually quite influential.
 Steve Jobs, of course, founded Apple and then was kicked out of Apple after the Macintosh.
 And he started a new company called Next.
 And if you listen closely to what Robert Caillou says, and you listen closely to what Paul Kuhn says,
 and the computer that was on my desk during this entire period of the 1990s to '93 were Next computers.
 Next was a bold, Unix-based, highly networked, high-definition display, high-performance computer
 that Steve Jobs built when he formed the company Next after he got fired from Apple.
 Of course, he eventually came back to Apple, and the Next technology is Macintosh.
 That's the Macintosh operating system.
 And so if you make a mistake in Macintosh, you might see an error message that starts "NS something."
 That's called NextStep, which is the operating system on these Next computers.
 For the first three years of the Web, it was pretty much only on the Next computer.
 People would, even the server was on the Next computer, and the browser was on the Next computer.
 And so the Next computer really kind of did that.
 I wrote an article a couple months after Steve Jobs died for IEEE Computer Magazine's January 2012 issue
 that really sort of tried to, at least from a historical perspective,
 point out how important Steve Jobs may have been in helping the Internet get formed.
