 Hello everybody, this is Dr. Chuck. We are in New York City. We are at the largest ever office hours on like 7th street and 38th, right?
 Oh yeah, you can take a picture. That's okay, you can take a picture too.
 Oh, that's right, I keep thinking I should have you guys film it yourselves.
 We need a camera people, but okay, here we go. So, so we'll just say hi.
 Hi, I'm Dustin. It's my first Coursera course and I'm here to just learn something new.
 Cool. Hi, I'm Carmen. It's my first Coursera course and I'm here to learn the program.
 Okay. Hi, I'm Katie. I'm taking a couple Coursera classes and thrilled to be here.
 Hi, I'm Mark and this is the first one that I really hope to complete.
 Good, I hope you complete as well.
 Right, and I do look forward to working with Chuck and collaborating with my colleagues.
 Cool. Hi, I'm Benesha. I've lost count of how many Coursera classes I've taken, but it's been fun to have the instructor here.
 Cool. Hi, my name is Anna. Hello from Russia and thanks Dr. Chuck for everything.
 We've had many people from Russia in the course. Hi, I'm Hamid. I will be a future Coursera student.
 Okay, welcome to the class in the future. Good luck.
 Hi, I'm Rodney. This is my first Coursera course. I'm trying to master in Python.
 Okay. Hi, I'm Shannon. It's also my first Coursera course and I'm excited to start it.
 Okay. Hi, I'm Brian. I just want to learn some coding.
 Okay, Brian, welcome to the class.
 Hi, I'm Alitra and I've been with Coursera for two years.
 Yeah, yeah, you were in my very first class.
 Yes.
 Yeah, well welcome.
 Yes, I am Michael. It's my first Coursera course and I hope that this is going to be a lot of fun.
 But you're also a teacher, right?
 I'm a teacher.
 What do you teach?
 I teach biology.
 Teach biology, like high school?
 High school, middle school.
 Okay, so you've got to find like the football coach and get your football coach to teach Python.
 Right.
 Of course.
 Hi, I'm Chris. This is my 14th or 15th MOOC.
 Holy mackerel.
 I just wanted to do a meetup because the professor is so cool.
 Thanks.
 Hi, I'm Shem. This is my first Coursera course. I work in IT and after speaking with all these beautiful people here, I am so excited. Here I come programming.
 Okay, so thanks everybody. Okay, well we'll see everybody online. Next week we'll be in Miami, Miami Beach, Florida. So we'll see you in Miami.
