 So we started our journey at University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. We got the
 NSF, created University of Michigan, we created the web, we created the first web
 server, and now we're going to come back to where we started. We're going to go
 back to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. These are the folks
 that basically exploded the web, moved the web from the academic space to the
 commercial and end user space. And there's all kinds of things. The network
 was growing, things were getting faster, personal computers were getting better
 very rapid pace because the IBM PC is almost 10 years old and many computers
 and they were getting quite fast in the in the 90s. So the 1990s our computing
 and their display capabilities were getting better very rapidly. And in this
 environment NCSA at Urbana-Champaign, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
 built an open source web browser that worked on Mac, Windows, and Unix. It was
 the first web browser that did this and it it was the thing that really made it
 so average people who had PCs or Macs in their home could get a network
 connection and start enjoying all of this new content that was coming up on
 the world wide web. Hello my name is Charles Severance and I am showing you
 right now a desktop application that works on my Macintosh called NCSA X
 Mosaic. This was software released in 1993 and it was the first Mosaic. It was
 the X Windows Mosaic and I'm running it on my Macintosh and you can download it
 from my github account. CSAB is my github handle and it's the X Mosaic - 1.2
 So what we're looking at here is the original default homepage at the
 National Center for Supercomputing Applications at the University of
 Illinois and we see it as we saw it circa 1993. We can scroll through we can
 see the old good old days the visited links in purple and so if we scroll
 down you'll see some neat pictures and the wonderful gray background. List tags
 were real back then. You know we can go see something about visualization at
 NCSA. I've done a little tiny bit to this to teach it a few things. You can see
 all that I've done on HTTP on my github site. You can see everything I've done on
 my github site. I try to stay as I just made a few more things work like PNG
 images and HTTP 1.1 seek it to visit more more pages. Another another
 wonderful page to another wonderful page to take a look at is the original first
 page on the world wide web the info.cern.ch and again we're experiencing
 it now circa 1993 to see what's out there. Take a look at the people involved
 in the project. So here's some of those pages Tim Berners-Lee of course Robert
 Caillou of course and here's some of the other people that were working at CERN.
 So there you go that is a quick experience in how we surf the web in 1993.
 After this the NCSA staff student programmers software developers all
 formed the company Netscape in order to commercialize all this. Joseph Harden
 was the supervisor of the software development group at NCSA that was
 responsible for building and releasing both the mosaic web browser and the
 HTTP web server as open source and gave them away free.
