 The NCSA Mosaic web browser was developed at the University of Illinois starting in 1992.
 NCSA Mosaic brought the web to Apple, PC, and Unix systems.
 Joseph Hardin managed the software development group at the National Center for Supercomputing
 Applications.
 NCSA was kind of a special place, right?
 One of those things that happens very infrequently where there's lots of energy, a large amount
 of resources, visionary leadership, and a lot of free space for people to play.
 And Larry Smarr has to figure in any discussion of it quickly because he's the person that
 created that space.
 And that gave a bunch of us, people in visualization, people in computational science, people in
 collaboration technologies, people in all kinds of stuff, networking.
 In the middle and late 80s, a space to just figure out what it was that we thought was
 fun and what was interesting.
 What I thought was interesting was how people were using these new technologies to work
 together.
 And we started out working with tools that supported simulation and computations on the
 main supercomputing systems.
 That's what the software development group did.
 And there was a group before I joined it that did NCSA Telnet, right?
 This is back when we were trying to convince the physicists that DECnet wasn't such a great
 idea, that we wanted this crazy, open, nobody owns it, right, IP model for the network.
 And that was kind of a bit of a struggle because if it was an open source type thing and nobody
 owns it, how's anybody going to have responsibility for it and why not use DECnet, which is this
 perfectly good proprietary, well-developed system, yadda yadda.
 So it took a while for us to explain to the physicists why we wanted an open model for
 TCP/IP, for the interconnection of all these networks.
 And I spent time for a while with a program at NCSA called the Affiliates Program, where
 we gave people Mac SEs and told them about TCP and put the NCSA Telnet on the machine
 and said, "Now, here's how you get to the supercomputers."
 Larry recognized from the beginning, and we all loved the idea, that these small little
 things on the desktop were really the gateways for everybody to the big machines in the background.
 And that all of this would turn into one cloud behind the screen that we needed to figure
 out how to get the user involved in as much as possible.
 So we were interested in building tools for end users that worked with PCs and that allowed
 them to do their work better in the computational science communities that they were part of
 on the supercomputers.
 And it's an easy extension from that to think about collaborative technologies in the large.
 How do people work together, not only with these tools, but also with simple communications,
 email, papers, data sets that they want to share, and how do they do that?
 Initially, our interest was in synchronous tools when we were thinking of collaboration
 tools.
 So we were building something called NCSA Collage, which was a set of tools that worked,
 and one of the big deals was that they worked across the three platforms, the X Windows
 for the UNIX people, the Windows environment, and the Mac.
 And that was one of the things that was sort of part of the underlying culture there was
 we wanted to make them available to as large a community as possible.
 So we started working on collaborative tools, and there was a set of people on each of those
 machines that was working to make it possible for people to share in real time images of
 their data, the spreadsheets of their data, and papers that they had run across interesting
 references to with their colleagues who were remote from them geographically.
 So that's the context in which Dave Thompson, who was one of the developers, one of the
 X Windows developers, the lead X Windows developer, I think, for the Collage tool, pulled down
 one of the early web browsers.
 It was the one from Slack, and I can't remember its name, and he went through the effort of
 getting it working and brought it in and showed it to Mark Andreessen and I.
 And both of us looked at the screen, Dave described what he had in front of us, and
 we said, "We can do better than that.
 That's a complicated system, and the interface looks terrible."
 And Dave said that it was a real pain for him to get it working, for him to download
 it and install it and compile it and everything.
 And it only works on an X Windows box, and wouldn't it be cool if it worked across all
 three of the boxes and if it was something that was just a plug-and-go like the rest
 of our tools?
 So Mark and another developer there ran with the idea.
 Dave wanted to work on it, but I said, "Dave, please finish up with the Collage stuff."
 And this was before we really understood what was meant by open source, but we wanted everybody
 to be able to take the software and do whatever they wanted to with it.
 We weren't that concerned with commercial advantage.
 We were more interested in it being open and people being able to make contributions back
 to the code and taking the code and doing what they wanted to with it.
 So we just put it all in the public domain, which as the folks from Apache will tell you,
 was kind of ambiguous.
 It's not clear what that means, but at least it got the code out there.
 So Mark and Eric were working on that.
 Mark and Eric were working on what?
 The first generation of NCSA Mosaic, and this was an X Windows app.
 And nobody was working yet on the Windows or the Mac version.
 And we saw the first version of that come out when was it?
 Early '93, late '92, and it was probably early '93.
 And the response, of course, was fantastic.
 It's wonderful to be able to just click on something and see it right away.
 And indeed, the combination of hyperlinks in a document as far as navigation and retrieval
 of documents as a user interface is just great.
 And a lot of people got it immediately, especially people that were working with the tools at
 NCSA and the companies-- I remember an HP exec coming in one time, and Mark and Eric
 had written a little filter that took Unix documentation and made it into HTML and made
 all of the references into links.
 And they went to-- they hit an HP site, and the exec said, "Where's this coming from?"
 Because he was able to see all of his HP documentation there in the room at NCSA and navigate through
 it really easily.
 And he said, "Well, you've got three or four folks back there that have put up HTTPD servers.
 You may not know what those are yet."
 And he said, "I've never heard of this."
 And we said, "But this is the kind of thing that is probably going to be really useful
 in the future for people who are trying to manage documentation in a distributed fashion."
 Yada, yada, yada.
 Right?
 We went on with a story like that, and this guy was bouncing up and down in his seat.
 And this was the kind of response that we got with it.
 For a while, we tried to integrate the earlier work with Collage with the work with Mosaic.
 And early versions of Mosaic have a Collaborate button at the top.
 And that was something that would allow you to pull in something from a synchronous session.
 The idea was that you'd be working with your colleagues synchronously, and then asynchronously
 go off and use the browser and pull something into the Collage session, or vice versa, be
 working on something in the Collage session and be able to access it through the browser,
 or just use the browser as a component in the session.
 Well, the browser, of course, took off.
 We had Tom Redmond, who was the lead for the Mac version, though he was the person who
 really built it was Alex Todit, who was an excellent developer and a lot of times ran
 ahead of the other people that were working on stuff, especially on the Mac.
 And Chris Wilson and John, they were working on the Windows version.
 So all of a sudden, in '93, late '93, early '94, there's this full suite of Mosaics that
 work across the X Windows, the Mac, and the Windows system.
 And that's the point at which the guy who was the president at the time of the Internet
 Association said NCSA has fired a shot heard around the world, because it's available now
 across all these platforms and anybody can use it.
 We were convinced deep down inside that all of the new technologies and the digitalization
 of the world and everything was going to make a huge difference.
 We just weren't sure exactly how.
 At the same time, when people would come to us early on in the Mosaic experience and say,
 we want to commercialize this and do this with it or do that with it, there was a lot
 of, you know, we're not sure.
 I remember sitting in rooms with commercial folks that came in and pitched to us.
 And I'd bring the whole team in, the whole software development group, and say, listen
 to these guys and, you know, tell me what you think about this.
 And nobody was sure what it was going to do.
 And there were people who started off building browsers and just kind of never got off the
 ground.
 Until the Netscape effort started up, there was sufficient energy and sufficient resources,
 I think, to really get on and ride and push and, you know, crank up a group of X hundred
 developers in a matter of months.
 And then they were, you know, quickly overshadowed by the effort that Microsoft put into it.
 I remember one of the Netscape guys saying, I came back from a meeting with some folks
 up in Seattle, and they said that Microsoft now had, this is when Netscape was riding
 at the top of its form, right?
 Top of the game.
 This guy says, Microsoft just told me that there's somebody from Microsoft just said
 that they've got like 2,000 developers working on this.
 He said, at that point, I realized that we were, you know, going to have some difficulties.
 And we, of course, always felt that there should be more than one browser.
 And so we wanted this because we were interested in standards and openness right at the time.
 If there's only one browser, then that company gets to determine what the standards are.
 And there were all kinds of hassles early on about putting in different features and
 the browsers driving the standards rather than the standards driving the browsers and
 all this kind of stuff.
 So we wanted some diversity.
 There was a feeling very early on that this was going to be a real gas.
 This was going to be hot, that this was something that was, the response was just so immediate.
 If you go back and you ask people who were sitting in front of machines in 1993, 94,
 95, right, and you say, do you remember the first time that you used Mosaic?
 Right?
 Or do you remember the first time you used a browser that wasn't Mosaic?
 And vast majority of them that I've run into say, yeah, I can remember.
 And I remember one of the NSF program officers calling me up one day just out of the blue
 and saying, I just wanted to tell you, you know, you guys, this was like after we'd been
 playing with this for months, right, not years, just months, he said, you know, sometimes
 we just sit around and click on things because it's still such a surprise to have a picture
 or a whole nother page of information pop up, right?
 And we don't know where it's coming from and we don't know who's putting it up, but we
 We still haven't gotten over
 the gee whiz aspect of this yet.
