 So at the end, Joseph is really talking about how Microsoft had to react to Netscape and
 how all of a sudden the market began to sort of crash together in tons of investment, a
 lot of intensity. Triggered mostly by the release of the Windows and the Mac version
 of Mosaic, 1994 was distinctly different than 1993. The staff at NCSA went and founded Netscape
 in April 1994. The first World Wide Web Conference was held in Switzerland. Shortly thereafter,
 the other first World Wide Web Conference was held in Chicago. There's some interesting
 stuff about that in these books. The books Robert Caius and Tim Berners-Lee's book talks
 a little bit about that. And in October 1994, Tim left CERN and went to form the World Wide
 Web Consortium. And by the end of the year, Windows 95 beta 2 with an internet browser
 was there with TCP/IP built in. And so if you really think about, I mean it's not even
 a whole year, it's almost six months where the world changed forever. And so at this
 point, now money is coming into it. Up to that point it was mostly ideas and research,
 but now money is coming in and we start seeing a transition. So Netscape was on the forefront
 of doing this. And Netscape basically took the open source product. They started kind
 of competing just to build a browser, but they quickly decided that they would go turn
 the browser and their web server more proprietary and try to create distributed computing applications
 using proprietary things that Netscape would build unique to themselves. And they would
 attack Microsoft. The moment it became clear that Netscape was going to produce a way to
 develop software on Mac, Windows, and Linux portably, then Microsoft got worried because
 then the operating system wouldn't matter. And Microsoft had put so much into the Windows
 operating system that if the operating system didn't matter, it would really tremendously
 threaten Microsoft's business, hence Windows 95 with TCP/IP and a free web browser. So
 Netscape sort of scared, well as Microsoft tried to buy Netscape, Netscape refused to
 sell wanting more money and then Microsoft vowed to destroy it. And as Microsoft was
 coming after Netscape, first Netscape tried to compete by building better and better software
 like the JavaScript language which will meet Brandon Icke in a moment. And then after that
 they tried to sort of switch from being the proprietary bad guys and go become more the
 open source good guys. And that kind of blew up in their face and they built this open
 source Mozilla which eventually became the Mozilla Foundation which eventually began
 Firefox. So now what I want to do is I want you to meet two people, both of whom now are
 the senior leadership at the Mozilla Foundation. Brandon Icke is the CTO of the Mozilla Foundation
 but he'll really tell us about the 1995 where he invented JavaScript in 10 days as part
 of Netscape. And then we'll meet Mitchell Baker who was the founder of, one of the founders
 of Mozilla and she will talk about how Netscape kind of fortunes declined, got purchased by
 AOL and fortunes declined even worse and how they basically pulled the Netscape code base
 out to form the Mozilla code base which then became Firefox code base. And the Firefox
 of course had this great idea that Mitchell will tell you about of having a search box
 and they made tons and tons of money as Mitchell will tell you about. So up next, Brandon Icke
 of the Mozilla Foundation and Mitchell Baker of the Mozilla Foundation.
