 Netscape is of course known for its Netscape Navigator product, first commercial browser
 on the web, so first tool, first generation really used to get on the web. And that was
 successful for a while, and then competition became quite stiff from Microsoft. The different
 way to compete would be by building a shared asset, set of Netscape versus Microsoft that
 Netscape would gather contributions of volunteers and other commercial partners, and build a
 product that would be shared. And that group of people knew that to be open source you
 had to be real. You couldn't just say, "Oh, we're open source, love us." You really had
 to manage it differently. So at the time there were six or seven or eight of us who were
 employed by Netscape as Mozilla.org staff, and another 100 or 150 employed by Netscape
 as Netscape engineers building the Netscape product, and contributing their work to the
 Mozilla open source project. So we were all in the same buildings, we all went to many
 of the same meetings, but we had slightly different goals. Because although we call
 it the Netscape product, Netscape had been purchased by AOL already. And so the client
 itself was diminishing in importance, and the importance of the Netscape client was
 to push traffic to the AOL websites. But we, of course, at Mozilla.org were an anomaly,
 because our charter was to build a successful open source project. And so that worked for
 quite a while. There were tensions. These were the dark years for Mozilla. We came to
 understand we needed to rebuild our core technology. That took a long time. While we were doing
 that, market share continued to slide. And there was a set of tensions over what does
 it mean to run a real open source project? And as it turned out, there were two competing
 views. And one of you was that open source is phenomenal, we're very happy that the
 code is out there, anyone is very welcome to take that code and use it. We absolutely
 want to build a large and engaged contributor community, but all decisions and all authority
 will be held by the managed group and we'll make those decisions as we think best, which
 is, of course, to benefit the client we're trying to build, which was the Netscape browser.
 We at Mozilla.org were convinced it wouldn't be successful, that building a product to
 benefit AOL only wouldn't generate the kind of interest, either from individual volunteers
 or from commercial partners, that we needed to be successful, and that we found the difference
 in perspective from the volunteers made the quality of the project much higher. They were
 under immense pressure to ship this product because the company needed it. And not only
 was it difficult technically and in an engineering sense, but we at Mozilla.org were saying,
 and there's these other things, you may think it's good enough, but we're telling you it's
 not because this is the feedback that we're getting and you need to change some of the
 development processes and management practices. And so they thought, well, I'm not sure what
 they thought, but we experienced it as, no, we really need to keep going on the way that
 we're going until we get this product shipped. But unfortunately, the Mozilla community was
 correct because when that product shipped, it was a failure. That was Netscape 6. Universally
 acknowledged as a bad product and pretty universally acknowledged as the end of the Netscape product
 line. That all those people that had held on and hoped through the Netscape four days
 and waited and waited and waited for the update once they got it pretty much gave up. So that's
 what we experienced. So that certainly didn't help us. That was unfortunate. It did reinforce
 our view that our view of the world wasn't crazy. And so we continued on and it was still
 long and slow to get technology and products that we liked. And the tensions continued.
 The management tensions continued. The failure of Netscape 6 didn't make anything easier.
 And certainly for the AOL folks, it really didn't make things easier either. And we fought
 a lot about the UI. I think UI is a constant source of tension. But in our case, it was
 worse because some of these fights would be it makes sense to AOL to put something in
 the product, in the interface of the product. Either a button to an AOL site or something
 that has an ad in it or some feature that a partner has paid for so it generates revenue.
 We think it might send people to our site. Some of our users might really like it. So
 it all made sense from their point of view. But if you're not building the AOL client
 to benefit AOL and you're trying to build an open source product that is used for many
 people, then of course those features are a big negative. And so those were very fierce
 fights because the management of the client group had very clear opportunities in hand
 that they wanted to build into their product. And we were this small group saying no.
 We're pretty opposed in that case. And we would say no, you can't put it into the core
 product. You're welcome to have a build system on your own and add it in later. And that's
 how we ended up doing this thing. So we did develop a system for it, but of course it's
 awkward and you're always rubbing against what should go where. And it turned out even
 in the very early days that the open source Mozilla versions of the product got a lot
 more testing than the Netscape versions. And we also tried to build in some quality mechanisms
 that again seem normal today. So you get hired as an employee, you don't automatically get
 the right to check your code into the tree. But someone has to look at your qualifications
 and say Mozilla and the way we work, we understand your coding level, we understand you know
 how we work, we understand if something goes wrong with your code you know where you need
 to be and all of these things. And that's a very difficult setting for a hiring manager
 to say well I've just hired you and you can't be as efficient as you think you can because
 there's yet another vetting process by this other group. So I understand why it was difficult,
 but on the other hand as an open source project if you can't control the quality of the code
 and you don't have any say in it you're not very real. Well client fortunes declined
 and the Netscape browser declined and declined precipitously after the Netscape 6. And so
 AOL was interested in laying off people and in one of the big layoffs I was included.
 And that was seen, that was in 2001 and that was seen as a power struggle as well because
 by that time the fights back and forth about what we were building and who was making decisions
 were pretty well known within the engineering organization. It's hard for them not to be.
 I mean it's true anywhere right, but in some cases the fights and the bugs are all very
 public as well. And so I was laid off or fired depending on how you want to describe it.
 And as it turned out it wasn't really possible to take my place. And I continued as a volunteer
 and the Netscape engineering organization was very clear whose leadership they were
 most interested in following. And so we had to work out a way in which the management
 at Netscape AOL that remained and I worked out a sort of a way to work together enough
 so that they could ship the product they wanted to ship but that I continued to lead the project.
 And I think that was a surprise, not so much to me I think. And so I worked as a volunteer
 on the Mozilla project for a number of years including the years in which we shipped our
 first product which we called Mozilla and which we were very proud of technically. And
 for its day many people were surprised at how good it was, but it didn't have a good
 user experience. But eventually I ended up working on another open source project with
 Mitch Kapoor for a while and that was lucky. He had started this open project and reached
 out to talk to Brendan and I about it to learn something. And the day that he was scheduled
 to come down and talk with us was the day that I was laid off. And so it was an odd
 thing of timing. Yeah that was pre-Chandler but it was that. So I worked on that for a
 while and Mitch was always a supporter of Mozilla. Even before Firefox when he didn't
 like the product but he recognized that we were an important part of the ecosystem. And
 that went on until 2003 when AOL decided to stop investing in the client almost completely.
 And fortunately they knew that just killing it wasn't good. They knew enough about Mozilla
 and the name and the brand to think it would be good to do something with it. And so eventually
 I ended up working with them and some of the people there knew Mitch as well. And I was
 working with Mitch and they knew him and so we all spent a chunk of time trying to figure
 out what was possible. And my partner Brendan was still at Netscape, very eager to make
 a move and many of the key people we wanted were also desperate to keep working on Mozilla.
 And so we ended up getting a two million dollar seed money from AOL and Mitch was helpful
 with that and a few other things. The trademark name Mozilla and the four giant servers which
 were so important to us at the time and which had taken us almost 18 months to get through
 the purchase cycle at AOL. And so I think we still have those boxes sitting around because
 they were so important to us at the time. And so in 2003 the Mozilla Foundation was
 formed and Mitch was the first chairman because he had done so much and had so much to offer.
 And Brian Balendorf and Chris Blizzard who worked on Mozilla forever and Brendan and
 I were on the board. And AOL understood that there were three or four people that would
 be leaving when they did some kind of re-org when they closed down the client group and
 that those people would be coming to join us. And of all the people that we thought would
 be most helpful at Mozilla, they all came. That was about nine or ten. So we were and
 Mitch continued to support me and one other person in Mozilla part time. So we were maybe
 ten or eleven people. And Brendan and I had always felt that we needed employees. It was
 exciting. It was a little scary because we knew that two million dollars wouldn't go
 that far and that we had a lot of work to do to make ourselves real. We were still 18
 months away from shipping, 15 months away from shipping Firefox. So that part was scary
 but it was immensely exciting. One of the friends of Mozilla showed up and they had
 a big lease and a little bit of space they could sublease to us. So we found a funky
 little room way in the back. Not even a sink. Very odd but we were really happy with it.
 And we worked away on building our product. At that time we made what was a pretty fundamental
 change that was critical and we decided unambiguously to be a consumer product. That seems obvious
 but when you're a bunch of developers it's not that easy. And it means that you have
 to strip out a lot of the things that are clunky for a general consumer. You really
 have to be determined that you're building for a general consumer, not yourself. And
 I think many open source projects probably don't want to do that and shouldn't try if
 you don't want to because you have to keep at it. So we started doing that. Out of the
 blue some visual designers appeared from Prince Edward Island in Canada and so we started
 to get nice looking logos which we'd never had before and visual elements. And then we
 tried to figure out what to do with the start page because we knew that Mozilla development
 tools weren't the right answer and we just took us forever. And we looked at all sorts
 of things and finally decided the one thing we knew that everybody did was search. You
 know we'd have people who'd say well it's obvious you should have the BBC. At least
 in English language versions it's obvious. And then you know our engineering guy would
 look up and say well it's not obvious to my 17 year old daughter that that's what she
 wants. It's not obvious to my son either so. But everybody used search. So we thought we
 have the search box. Maybe we should put that on the start page too. Make it easier. Maybe
 more obvious to people about search. So we went to talk with the search providers. We
 had a very fruitful discussion with Google. I think they also saw the value of having
 a Mozilla browser in the world. They were very explicit about that and I believe them.
 And so they were also open to doing a business arrangement. And so often people ask how Mozilla
 gets paid and we're like most businesses on the web. Search and ads. You do a search.
 You know you'll see ads. If you follow those ads revenue is generated. You know it goes
 through the system and we get a little piece of it. As do other browser makers. So it's
 very similar to the business model on the web. And we did something that I believe had
 never been done before which was to make sure that Google and Yahoo were right there next
 to each other. You don't see them next to each other. You have to click on the arrow
 but they're there. And today people laugh at me when I say that because you only see
 one. But I negotiated that. And that was an absolute utter I will walk away from the deal
 term to everyone. Because I don't think I'd ever seen it before. And I wasn't. You know
 what if you get on a plane and you want a Diet Coke but the plane only has Diet Pepsi
 because that's their deal. You're angry and if you want a Diet Pepsi and you want a Coke.
 And I used that example. I said I'm not going to have Firefox users angry at us because
 they wanted one or the other. You know you have to agree. You're both going to be in
 the product. But it also is your values right. It is your values front and center. Yes because
 the choice is there. We can do it. And to not do it would be to take away a choice that
 somebody really wants and it matters to someone. So we have that choice in the search box but
 we still didn't really know what to expect. So we shipped Firefox. And our sense that
 we were onto something turned out to be far more true even than we knew. We'd seen a rise
 in interest from 0.8 and 0.9 that was pretty noticeable but once we hit the release version
 it just exploded. And part of that was it was the perfect product. This time we had
 a product at the right time in the market. Internet capabilities had grown enough people
 could actually download a browser easily and more people had bandwidth and ability to do
 so and a comfort level to try it. So that was good. We had a beautiful product and it
 was an important product and the alternative was horrendous and dangerous and awful. And
 so all of that combined to create this giant excitement. And so Firefox market share climbed
 by a percentage point immediately and started moving these huge numbers. So it was a completely
 viral storm with nothing driving it other than the product and the need itself. And
 so that took everyone by surprise. We were hoping to be able to generate a few million
 dollars to support ourselves for the next year. We had 10 or 11 employees. You start
 to add that up. So we were hoping to make enough money to do that. And it turned out
 we generated that amount of money before the end of the year. The six weeks or eight weeks
 or whatever it was before the end of the year. And so things actually things got even more
 stressful and more hectic at that point because now you've kind of got the proverbial tiger
 by the tail. We're still 12 people. Right. So that immediate need to grow and the sense
 of pressure and stress combined with elation and success is probably, you know, I don't
 know, maybe it's like having a child. Right. But it's that combination doesn't immediately
 get easier. It was a little easier to be anonymous than nervous. Yes. Yes, that's for sure. We
 certainly see that. And so by the end of Firefox shipped in 2004, just actually we just passed
 the eight year anniversary. And by the end of 2004, it was pretty clear that we were
 a different organization. We were, I would say, still struggling with a different set
 of problems, but we had changed the nature of the problems really quite fundamentally.
 And you know, we've done so in a way that that our users loved. By 2005, we were in
 a really different world where we began to be able to actually influence others. And
 that's always been the goal. I mean, market share is nice and it's nice when people love
 your product. Market share is a validation that you produce the right thing. And so that's
 awesome on its own. But the more important, maybe not more important, equally important
 goal is to be able to influence not only ourselves, but others in the industry so that we start
 to see more of the things that we care about.
