 I think you can see that Tim Berners-Lee is a real bright guy with a real strong vision
 of the future and a real deep commitment to the web and the Internet being an agent of
 change in the world.
 And I think that it's going to continue to be that unless proprietary companies can get
 an upper hand.
 And so it's really incumbent on all of us to protect the freedom of the Internet.
 And believe me, there are organizations that think they should run the Internet and the
 web.
 They just are.
 They never have stopped.
 So we're at the point where the web is all here.
 It's quite amazing.
 And before we move on, I want to characterize just a little bit about the people you've
 met so far and talk about some of the common things that they have between them.
 And in a way, I've got the book The Wisdom of Crowds here, one of my favorite books.
 Each one of these people, when you listen to them talk, they would quite often talk
 about all the other people doing all the other work.
 And they rarely consider themselves in any way heroes.
 They rarely consider themselves as the great innovators.
 They always see themselves as part of a collective curiosity.
 And there were many things that I haven't told you about that were curious explorations
 that helped inform it.
 And this was really research until sort of the late '90s.
 It was just a question of how to do it.
 And at some point after the late '90s, it switched to what to do with it.
 And at that point, we have a whole different group of people that start really entering
 the world.
 And one that's one of the earlier ones and has benefited greatly from it is Jeff Bezos.
 He's the founder of Amazon.com.
 And if you listen to Jeff, you will hear that he talks very differently.
 He comes at it from a business perspective.
 He's not necessarily trying to make the world a worse place.
 He's trying to make the world a better place.
 The fact that you can get all these books like The Next Morning, that's kind of cool.
 So what Amazon does is really wonderful.
 It's more efficient for society, it's economically beneficial.
 But he has a profit in mind.
 He is saying this web exists, browsers exist, protocols exist.
 How can I take best advantage of it?
 Richard Wiggins caught up with Jeff in 1997.
 So just look at how smart this guy was in 1997.
 Everyone else figured this out much later, but Jeff Bezos is a really, really bright
 person.
 Here's Jeff Bezos.
 Hi there.
 Who are you?
 I'm Jeff Bezos.
 What is your claim to fame?
 I'm the founder of Amazon.com.
 Where did you get an idea for Amazon.com?
 Well, three years ago I was in New York City working for a quantitative hedge fund when
 it came across the startling statistic that web usage was growing at 2300% a year.
 So I decided I would try and find a business plan that made sense in the context of that
 growth.
 So I picked books as the first best product to sell online for making a list of like 20
 different products that you might be able to sell.
 Books were great as the first best because books are incredibly unusual in one respect.
 That is that there are more items in the book category than there are items in any other
 category by far.
 Music is number two.
 There are about 200,000 active music CDs at any given time.
 But in the book space, there are more than three million different books worldwide active
 and in print at any given time across all languages.
 More than one and a half million in English alone.
 So when you have that many items you can literally build a store online that couldn't exist any
 other way.
 And that's important right now because the web is still an infant technology.
 Basically right now if you can do things using a more traditional method, you probably should
 do them using the more traditional method.
 What kind of inventory do you keep?
 We inventory the best selling books at any given time.
 We're inventorying in our own warehouse only a couple of thousand titles.
 And then we have, we do almost in time inventory for another 400,000 titles or so.
 We get those from a network of electronic, we order electronically from a network of
 wholesalers and distributors.
 We order those today.
 They're on our loading dock the next morning.
 Then for another 1.1 million titles we get those directly from 20,000 different publishers
 and those can take a couple of weeks to get.
 And then there are a million out of print books in our catalog.
 We have a catalog of two and a half million books altogether.
 Those million out of print books, some of them we can get and some of them we can't.
 But we find them if we can and then we ship them to our customers.
 We do kind of a search on those.
 What's almost in time inventory?
 Almost in time inventory is the phrase we use to describe a whole selection of books
 that we offer.
 Particularly the things that are below the 2,000th best selling book up to the 400,000th
 best selling book.
 Those are titles that we can get from a network of more than a dozen different wholesalers.
 So if a customer orders a book from us today, we order that book from our wholesalers today
 and that book shows up on our loading dock the next morning.
 And then we can ship it to the customer.
 They say one of the toughest things to do on the internet is to capture mind share.
 What was your secret?
 How did you do that?
 Well yeah, even more generally, I agree with you that capturing mind share on the internet
 is extremely difficult.
 Even more generally, it's the late 20th century, not just the internet.
 Capturing attention, attention is the scarce commodity of the late 20th century and one
 of the ways that you can do that and it's the way that we did it was by doing something
 new and innovative for the first time that actually has real value for the customer.
 It's a hard thing to do, but if you do do that, then newspapers will write about you,
 what you're doing.
 Customers will tell other customers and you'll get a huge word of mouth fan out and that
 can really drive and accelerate businesses and that's what happened with us.
 In the first year of opening amazon.com to the public, we didn't do any paid advertising
 and all of our growth was fueled by word of mouth and media exposure.
 I saw little ads at the bottom of the column of the New York Times.
 That was our very first advertising.
 We don't do that anymore, but at the very beginning, we did little tiny ads at the bottom
 of the front page of the New York Times.
 I thought that was very clever.
 It's sort of using a URL as a macro because I read that it expands.
 We're a bookstore.
 Click here.
 Right.
 That's a great way to think of it.
 And it worked very well apparently.
 I don't know, you know, the problem with that kind of advertising is it's extremely difficult
 to track.
 Put a different URL for every...
 That's the problem is that you want people to start to learn your URL so you don't want
 to actually use a different one.
 And it's very easy.
 One of the great things about online ads, we do advertising today in maybe 40 different
 websites.
 We do banner ads.
 And that advertising is very easy to track in terms of knowing how effective it is.
 So we know for each piece of creative in each venue, not only how many click throughs we
 get but how many sell throughs we get, how many dollars of revenue it generates per ad
 dollar spent on that creative in that venue.
 And that is sort of a marketer's nirvana in a certain sense.
 Well it's an exciting place to be on the web right now.
 Oh, it absolutely is.
 I mean it's just incredible.
 What's really incredible about this is that this is day one.
 This is the very beginning.
 This is the Kitty Hawk stage of electronic commerce.
 We're moving forward in so many different areas and lots of different companies are
 as well.
 And the late 20th century is just a great time to be alive.
 We're going to find out that I think a millennia from now people are going to look back and
 say wow, the late 20th century was really a great time to be alive on this planet.
 So if you're a stockholder of Amazon, I think you're in good shape because he's a bright
 fellow and he's always looking for how to really do the right thing and give us products
 that we really like.
 Now in this we sort of evolve the modern internet.
 And much like Jeff, Jeff said that investment was growing at 3,000% a year or something
 like that.
 There was this mania in '96, '97, '98 where people just bought and bought and bought and
 the notion that communications was going to be so valuable led to in a sense an overbuilding
 of the fiber optic plan.
 We have a massive amount of fiber optic in the ground right now and our ability to send
 more data through the existing fibers by just upgrading the equipment at the two ends, that's
 growing very rapidly as well.
 And so we're in this really weird world now where a fiber optic between Ann Arbor and
 Chicago, 180 miles, is not that much more expensive than a piece of copper wire that goes 30 miles
 in 1960.
 And so distance is less and less important in the internet.
 It's why long distance phone calls don't cost any money anymore because long distance and
 local are not that different because there's so much fiber in the ground.
 But just one thing I want you to think about and wonder about is will we run out?
 We're living off of the overbuilding that happened in the late '90s when they put so
 much in and they've been able to upgrade so effectively.
 But we might run out and where will the money come from to dig the next set of trenches
 to put the next round of fiber in, we'll have to see.
 So if we take a quick look at-- this is a graph of the growth of the servers on the
 World Wide Web.
 And if you take a look, we start in 1990 with one web server, December 1990, with Tim Berners-Lee
 having one web server.
 And then it sort of doesn't grow.
 And then you sort of see kind of like this takeoff in the last two years, last late two
 years of the 1990s, where you go up to about 20 to 30 million from what, I don't know,
 1996 is less than a quarter of a million dollars and less than a quarter of a million hosts.
 You see kind of the crash, the boom, and the crash where it wasn't growing.
 And then you sort of see another new graph, which is really-- this is when everybody had
 to be on the internet.
 Every little store started being on the internet.
 Every one had to have a web server.
 This was kind of the big ones coming on.
 And this was sort of like the flame out of the exuberant growth of the late '90s.
 And this exuberant growth gets so exuberant that it really changes the stock market in
 the United States and the rest of the world to the point where, you know, from the early
 '90s to 2000 was the longest period of expansion.
 And there's a lot of factors for this.
 But one of the factors is, as we began to use communication and computation to make
 commerce more efficient, that triggered a great deal of growth.
 It also triggered over-speculation, right?
 And so the kind of-- this part here, the crash, the dot com crash, was a bit of the over-speculation
 working its way out.
 Probably if, you know, if they hadn't over-speculated, it would go like this instead.
 But it can't be like that.
 You go crazy, crazy, crazy, crazy, crazy, oops, oops, oops, oops, oops.
 And then we sort of had a crappy economy for a while after that.
 But again, the web, the internet, and all the technology that I just talked about really
 put a stamp on the entire world's economy in the 1990s.
 So I could go on and on and on and on about this stuff.
 Open source is a big part of this.
 I will put links up for these videos that I've got.
 These are three open source luminaries that I've interviewed.
 Richard Stallman is the Free Software Foundation, the GNU, which is-- much of Unix's utilities
 are written this way.
 The compilers are written this way.
 He is a tremendous advocate for open source software.
 Also we meet Brian Bellendorf from the Apache Foundation.
 The Apache Foundation was formed based on the web server that was created at NCSA, became
 the first web server that was the Apache web server.
 So that lineage goes all the way back to Joseph Harden and the team at NCSA.
 And then Rasmus Lierdorf is the inventor of PHP and one of the many very popular web programming
 languages for building websites.
 And so I'll put the links up for these, and you can take a look at them.
