 The Free Software Foundation's mission is to promote users' freedom to copy and redistribute
 and change software.
 Free software refers to freedom, not price.
 So the alternative to free software is proprietary software, proprietary software that subjugates
 and divides the users.
 That's what's wrong about it.
 It's because it divides and subjugates people.
 It doesn't respect users' freedom.
 It doesn't allow users to be part of a community, and that's why it's wrong.
 It's not wrong for programmers to make money, and as long as they can make money in a way
 that respects the freedom of other people, I think that's good.
 After all, I'm a programmer, and I'm not unhappy when I make some money, but I only do it in
 ways that respect the freedom of other people.
 Back in the 1980s, it was possible for people to speculate, speculatively assume that we
 couldn't possibly do such a big job because nobody would write the software if they weren't
 getting paid.
 Well, now we know from experience that lots of people will work on free software even
 if they don't get paid, and at the same time, a number of people have found ways to get
 paid to write free software, so we've now shown that we can do very large jobs.
 We can produce a broad spectrum of software that is very high quality and that users like
 to use.
 Well, I think that the World Wide Web should eventually become the free encyclopedia of
 all knowledge, that it should have articles covering every topic that you'd want to have
 in an encyclopedia, and every one of these articles should be available for access at
 no charge, and that people should be permitted to redistribute them also, and also to quote
 parts, any part of the article in a new article.
 I think that they'll be written mostly by teachers, college teachers, high school teachers.
 You know, if each one writes an article a year, if each, say, not every teacher, because
 obviously they won't all do this, but if a couple of thousand teachers get involved and
 each one writes an article per year, that's not a very large part of your time, and that'll
 get the job done in a decade or two.
