 (jazz music)
 (jazz music)
 (jazz music)
 (jazz music)
 (jazz music)
 - We got our start in the early days of the web
 as a group of disaffected webmasters
 who were using a piece of freely available web software,
 but had difficulty with it.
 We were fixing bugs.
 We were sharing these bug fixes with each other,
 like baseball trading cards, if you will,
 these patches, as it's called.
 And one day we discovered the group
 that put out the web server that we were using
 basically folded when all their developers left
 to go join a brand new company called Netscape.
 So a bunch of us decided that,
 hey, we're dependent upon this software.
 We don't want to become full-time web server developers,
 but we want to be able to use this thing
 that we've had for free and be able to improve it
 and all that kind of stuff.
 We looked at the license of the code,
 and the license said, here's the software.
 Do whatever you want with it.
 Don't blame us when it breaks, right?
 And we said, hey, that's a pretty good bargain.
 Why don't we pass the same bargain
 onto the next group of people, right?
 So we formed a mailing list, right?
 And this was mostly, again, webmasters
 and people working at some early internet service providers
 or website design companies or places like Amazon
 or the internet movie database.
 And we combined our patches together
 and decided to call it a patchy server for that reason
 and went forward.
 And really the model of how we worked
 was based upon kind of us as a group, as peers,
 proposing ideas, vetting each other's ideas and patches
 and fixing bugs as a group, as a team.
 None of us had met in person, well, some of us had met,
 but as a group, we didn't meet in person until 1998,
 really three years after we got our start.
 And long after, by the way,
 we'd become the most predominant web server product
 on the planet.
 And yet at this time, still, no money, no dime,
 not direct to us from this piece of open source software,
 but plenty of us made our living
 off of building things on top of this piece.
 And that's really the story, I think,
 of kind of successful open source projects writ large,
 which is people working together on common technologies
 to solve common problems
 so they can go off and make money on other places
 or so they can have fun, they can try new ideas,
 they can be experimental, right?
 And that's really the same story of Apache and of Linux
 and all these other open source projects.
 - So one of the core things about Apache
 is the concept of meritocracy.
 Was that a difficult thing to make happen?
 I mean, I look at your bylaws and I say,
 somebody crafted those bylaws carefully,
 or was this just kind of like dumb luck?
 Is this just kind of how it worked out?
 Were there any like fights over the bylaws,
 or did the bylaws just kind of come naturally?
 - So let's say you've got a group of your neighbors,
 you know, say a four or five block radius, right?
 Group of your neighbors, you're on a mailing list, right?
 And you kind of wanna be social with each other
 because you have to see each other every day.
 You know, you don't wanna pick fights necessarily.
 But you wanna get something done and you decide that,
 hey, let's throw a picnic on some Sunday, right?
 So as a group of neighbors, how are you going to decide
 how to throw a big group picnic, right?
 Well, somebody's gonna say, hey, I have a big grill.
 You know, somebody else will say,
 I have this great meat place that I go and buy my meat from.
 I'll get it there.
 Somebody else says, I make a wicked potato salad
 or something like that.
 And, you know, by people showing up and volunteering things
 and saying what they can do
 and building upon each other's ideas,
 you generally find a way to do it.
 That carries a tone of respect for other people's ideas
 that, you know, recognizes that passion and motivation
 are some of the most finite resources in the world, right?
 And you have to cherish that.
 You don't wanna, you know,
 naysay somebody's idea just out of hand, right?
 And so I think it just kind of fell out naturally
 from, you know, kind of the golden rule
 of do unto others and that kind of thing.
 Didn't seem like magic to us, I guess,
 when we were doing it.
 But yeah, it turns out to be not that hard
 to be able to work together
 when people have the same common goal,
 which is let's build a product
 that does all this great stuff.
 One thing that we did do that made it easy
 to make some of these decisions
 was to have a very modular API,
 which made it easy for us to be able to say,
 "Hey, if you want that special cool feature,
 "do it as a separate thing and make it successful,
 "and we'll decide whether to bring this into the product
 "once it's become successful or not," right?
 Another key thing that plays into this
 that is true of all open source projects
 is that an open source license, like we had on ours,
 that Linux has, et cetera,
 carries with it something called the right to fork,
 which means that if I were to go all Colonel Kurtz
 on the project and start saying we're gonna go here
 and no one else wanted to follow,
 well, all of those other people
 could decide to pick up the code
 and go start a different project somewhere else
 if they couldn't kick me out,
 which is probably what they would have tried to do first.
 This right to fork means that
 you don't have to have any tolerance for dictators.
 You don't have to deal with people
 who make bad technical decisions.
 You can take that future into your hands,
 and if you find a group of other people who agree with you,
 you can go on and create a new project around it.
 So I think that rule, that right to fork,
 limits the kind of excesses that we see
 whenever we start to talk about
 how do groups make decisions and conflict arises,
 how do you deal with that conflict?
 And it means that your style of leadership
 isn't so much one of control
 and plotting moves ahead of time,
 but instead one of being able to get people on your side,
 convince them that you're gonna value their efforts,
 value the contributions that they make.
 - Tell me a little bit about what you're doing now
 and how sort of the Apache work
 has flowed into what your current work is.
 - Well, I think what we realized
 kind of early on with Apache is that
 even though we were really carrying forward
 the traditions from the Internet Engineering Task Force,
 from the BSD community and the Linux communities
 in terms of how to write software,
 and even though we were using tools
 available to the open source world like CVS
 and web-based issue trackers and such,
 I came to realize that there was a certain kind of,
 that if you could define how it was
 at Apache Build Software,
 define it from the perspective of process
 and the perspective of tools,
 that was something that if you could
 distill it down to a science and make it repeatable,
 you could take it to the rest of the software industry.
 And you could do that for more open source projects,
 brand new ones,
 or you could even do it inside of companies.
 We, on the outside of big companies like an IBM or an HP,
 we tend to think that all those companies
 must have that innovation problem licked, right?
 They must know how to write software,
 great software that maximizes the intellectual capital
 that they're paying for every day, right?
 Turns out a lot of companies are actually
 really bad at getting their engineers,
 getting their employees to produce the smartest things,
 to reuse each other's work as well as they could,
 and as well as the open source community does.
 And so I started a company in 1999
 on the premise of let's figure this out,
 let's put this in a bottle if we can or define it,
 and let's take it to the rest of the industry
 in the form of a collaboration platform
 targeted at version control, issue tracking,
 and also capturing the ad hoc, you know,
 free form conversation that takes place
 in open source projects.
 And so part of it is that,
 part of it as well is educating communities
 on best practices around open source engineering.
 How do you have a development process
 that is transparent and accessible
 to everyone in an organization
 rather than something that is, you know,
 three people in a cubicle making a decision
 about, you know, the right kind of decision,
 or a way to implement a particular technical solution, right?
 - So finish this sentence, CollabNet is?
 - CollabNet is a products and services company
 focused on replicating open source collaboration
 practices and tools to the rest of the software industry.
 - Perfect.
 Now we're on.
 - Hi there.
 I'm here at North Carolina State University
 at a meeting hosted by IBM
 talking about potential for open source in K-12.
 I was very, very fortunate to be on a wonderful panel
 with Brian Bellendorf from Apache Foundation.
 Brian spoke with the Sakai community last June
 in Baltimore as our keynote,
 and I was able to talk to Brian
 ask him a few things about the beginning of Apache and what he's up to now.
