 Alright, so it started in 1993 when I saw the Mosaic web browser. That was when I got
 really interested in the web. I'd been doing Gopher and IRC and other Internet related things
 before then, but with Mosaic, I could suddenly explain what I was doing to my mother. So I
 knew this thing was going to be very, very interesting. I was living in Mountain View,
 California, but I moved back to Toronto to do consulting, and I ended up consulting for
 a number of companies, and I wrote the same code over and over, basically CGI scripts
 written in C, and I wrote similar code to handle forms and host data and filtering and
 all those sort of common web things you end up having to write in C if you're writing
 raw CCGI programs. So that was getting tedious. I'm not very interested in programming. It's
 kind of tedious and boring, so if I could reduce the amount of time I had to spend programming
 and maximize the output and get to the solution quicker, that was my goal with PHB. I put
 together all my common stuff into a C library, hacked it into the NCSA web server, and then
 added a little templating system on top of that to let me easily call into it, and that
 was the first version of PHB. It was a productivity tool for myself, so I could very quickly go
 to a new client and whip up a new web application for them and tie them to their database or
 whatever they needed, and every client had slightly different requirements, so I kept
 extending my tool. Then other people started asking me about this stuff. They asked me
 how I built these things, and I said, "Well, I'm using this little tool I built," and they
 asked if they could have it, and I said, "Sure, why not?" I mean, that's not what I'm selling.
 I'm selling my services of solving problems. The tool itself is irrelevant, really. It's
 just my hammer. Anybody can use my hammer. I don't care. And then they started sending
 patches, which I thought was really, really cool, and they found bugs in my stuff that
 I hadn't found yet, which meant I could also go into clients and say, "Hey, here we go.
 Here's a new version. It fixes this, this, and this," and they thought I was being extremely
 productive writing all this code and fixing all these things so fast. That's when open
 source really hit me. This was in 1994, '95, before the term open source existed, but it
 really caught on with me that I got together with a group of my peers, other people interested
 in the web and solving the web problem from all around the world. We all had similar problems.
 We faced similar issues, and collaboratively we could build a tool that solved this problem.
 That was really how PHP got off the ground. I learned a bit along the way that in order
 for this to grow, I had to give up control of PHP. I had to let other people have some
 control. I couldn't rewrite everybody's patches, both because I'm pretty lazy and it's a lot
 of work, but also to give people some ownership in the project. Once they have some ownership
 and once they have full control over their part of it, then they become much more invested
 in it, and they become passionate, and it becomes theirs, not just them contributing
 to my project, it becomes our project. That really changed the nature of PHP. That happened
 around 1997 or so, where I really delegated it out and gave people full access to the
 CBS repository that I was using to develop this stuff in. It grew like crazy after that,
 both because the web grew, and PHP was sort of in the right time, the right place, but
 also because it was very, very easy to get in and get started. Contributing to PHP and
 using PHP as well, obviously, has a very low barrier of entry. Both on the using PHP side
 and also contributing to PHP side, I try to keep the barrier of entry really low. It does
 not take much, even today, to get a CBS account in a PHP project. Source provision control
 is a wonderful thing. It doesn't really matter how bad the initial patch is from some contributor.
 We can always fix it. Much rather welcome new contributors and guide them along and
 get them to be productive and useful, than yell at them for having a bad initial patch.
 From the outside, you look like a well-oiled machine. It's a well-oiled machine that accomplishes
 things more effectively than a commercial organization. At the same time, it's a band
 of brothers to some degree. We have close to 1,400 people with CBS accounts, which means
 those people can all commit to some part of the repository, either PHP, Pear, Peckle,
 or the documentation tree, anywhere in there. They're not all active, obviously. We probably
 have slightly over half the people have committed something in the last year and a half. There's
 no management of these people, really. They self-organize into smaller groups. It's impossible
 to manage 1,400 people, obviously, especially when they're volunteers and they're not actually
 going to show up to a meeting or to read their email or whatever. They self-organize around
 what they're interested in. We have documentation teams for the various languages. There's a
 big French documentation team that just worry about the French translation of the documentation.
 There's a Japanese translation team, a big group of core documenters. Those guys organize
 themselves. There's no big chief of this whole thing. I don't tell people what to do. I can't.
 They're not going to listen to me. Why would they listen to me? They do what they're interested
 in. That's the only way volunteers work. Then there's the Peckle guys that build Peckle
 extensions. Generally, that's where we test out new extensions and bring in certain ones.
 Like in PHP 5.1, we brought in the JSON extension, which started its life in Peckle. Next may
 be OAuth or some of the others that are big right now. That's how new features and new
 things eventually creep in. They live outside of the core tree, and they get enough penetration.
 There are enough people to install them. We see Linux distros pulling them in, and their
 core version of PHP, they pull in some of these things. We sort of look at what's happening
 out there, and that happens. There's no real management of that either. It's a meritocracy.
 Code speaks. If you write a patch, or you write a piece of code to implement a feature,
 that says a lot. If someone wants to disagree with that way of doing things, if they can
 offer an alternate implementation, that's a really good argument. If all they do is
 whine about it, that's a really bad argument. Chances are that the implementation will win,
 even though it may not be the best way of doing things. There's code. It sort of works.
 That's what we go with. That's always been the default. It doesn't always lead to consistency,
 but it does lead to getting the features and actually being able to do something, being
 able to connect to this type of database, even though it may not be the best way of
 doing it. At least it gets you there. That's always been what PHP is about, is solving
 the problem. We'd rather have an ugly feature than not having the feature at all.
